risk factors risk factors - risks relating to our business, included in this report. employees on october 31, 2012, the company had about 7,800 employees. the company believes that its relations with its employees are good. new york stock exchange certification we submitted our 2012 annual section 12(a) ceo certification with the new york stock exchange. the certification was not qualified in any respect. additionally, we filed with the securities and exchange commission as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended october 31, 2012, the ceo and cfo certifications required under section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. 15 available information the cooper companies, inc. internet address is http://www.coopercos.com. the information on the company's web site is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the sec. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec), are publicly available free of charge on our web site as soon as reasonably practicable. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains a web site that contains such reports, proxy and information statements and other information whose internet address is http://www.sec.gov. the company's corporate governance principles, ethics and business conduct policy and charters of each standing committee of the board of directors are also posted on the company's web site. 16 item 1a. risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive healthcare industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens business, coopervision faces intense competition from competitors' products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our major competitors in the contact lens business, johnson &amp; johnson vision care, inc., ciba vision (owned by novartis ag) and bausch &amp; lomb, inc., have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and larger manufacturing volumes than coopervision. they offer competitive products and differentiated materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. the market for contact lenses is intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to introduce new products successfully, on a timely basis in the americas, emea and asia pacific, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, coopervision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, or that our competitors' newer contact lens products will not successfully erode coopervision's contact lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the women's healthcare market, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians and hospitals. coopersurgical competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche areas, some of which have substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. acquisitions that we have made and may make in the future involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at coopersurgical, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future acquisitions could result in 17 potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. recently, coopersurgical completed the acquisition of origio a/s. this acquisition added significant operations to coopersurgical and greatly expanded its international business. the origio acquisition has correspondingly added risks to coopersurgical. risks we could face with respect to acquisitions, including the origio acquisition, include: difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations or terminate our employees; a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations. product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence if we are unable to develop new products or gain regulatory approvals or if our competitors introduce new products. product innovations are important in the contact lens market in which coopervision competes and in the areas of the healthcare industry in which coopersurgical competes. coopersurgical does not allocate substantial resources to new product development, but rather it has historically purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. coopervision has been investing in new product development since 2005, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. although coopervision focuses on products that will be marketable immediately or in the short to medium term rather than on funding longer-term, higher risk research and development projects, time commitments, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies, such as contact lenses with anti-microbial or anti-allergenic features, that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. competitors may also introduce new uses for contact lenses, such as for drug delivery or the control of myopia. failure to develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them, assuming they receive necessary regulatory approvals, will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. in addition, we have been slower to introduce new silicone hydrogel contact lens products than our competitors which put these products at a competitive disadvantage. the 18 development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: acceptance of our products by eye care and women's healthcare practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory requirements; adequate coverage and reimbursement by third party payors; the earlier release of competitive products, such as silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care and women's healthcare industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, may limit demand for our products. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. if these new advances provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations for coopervision and our newly acquired origio business are conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america and europe. approximately two-thirds of our net sales for coopervision for the fiscal years ended october 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; we may find it difficult to grow in emerging markets such as china, india and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped distribution channels, regulatory restrictions and business knowledge of these new markets; tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of united states and foreign compliance and regulatory requirements such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the dodd-frank act and the u.k. bribery act; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; 19 foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; and we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business. in the united states and globally, market and economic conditions have been unprecedented over the past few years and challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth. the u.s. economy has experienced a recession and faces continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions such as the growing u.s. deficit, high energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and an unstable real estate market. foreign countries, in particular the euro zone, are affected by similar systemic impacts. as a result, we continue to have lower than historical expectations for market growth in fiscal 2013. continued turbulence in the united states and international market and economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. if these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face risks associated with disruption of manufacturing and distribution operations and failure to develop new manufacturing processes that could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), enforcement action by the fda or other regulatory body if we are found to be in non-compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. while we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete. 20 coopervision manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent the majority of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom and puerto rico. coopersurgical manufactures the majority of its products in trumbull, connecticut, stafford, texas, malov, denmark and pasadena, california. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we have generally not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. coopervision distributes products out of west henrietta, new york, hampshire, united kingdom, liege, belgium and various smaller international distribution facilities. coopersurgical's products are primarily distributed out of its facilities in trumbull, connecticut and malov, denmark. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, our products could be subject to recall, and sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda's cgmp for medical devices, known as the qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to pass a cgmp, qsr or similar foreign inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. we rely on independent suppliers for raw materials and we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice. we rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals and packaging materials. raw materials used in our operations are generally available from more than one source. however, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. we purchased asahikasei aime co. ltd. to achieve greater control over certain of the raw materials used in our silicone hydrogel contact lenses. however, asahikasei finechem (asahi) remains our sole supplier of the primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, biofinity and avaira. we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products if asahi or other suppliers fail to supply sufficient material on a timely basis or at all for any reason and/or we need to switch to an alternative supplier. a disruption in the supply of raw materials could disrupt production of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete in this important segment of the contact lens market. 21 if we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. we also cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. both coopervision and coopersurgical also rely on unpatented proprietary technology or technology where patents will expire in less than a few years. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. we rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. to maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. we also might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. 22 the laws of foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products or processes could be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others. our competitors in both the united states and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. in the contact lens industry, coopervision and its competitors all hold patents covering contact lens designs, business methods, processes and materials. claims that our products, business methods or processes infringe upon the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales of products incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industries. for example, coopervision has faced significant patent litigation over its silicone hydrogel contact lens products. third parties have made, and may make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology. any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or reengineer our products, if feasible; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product that is the subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to 23 product liability claims or recalls, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing products, in the future. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of united states federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facility under certain circumstances. our credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain our desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we currently use, and may continue to use, interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful 24 in structuring such swap agreements to manage our risks effectively, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations and our foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the british pound sterling, euro, japanese yen, danish krone and canadian dollar. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. although from time to time we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our debt or receivables obligations, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. these hedges may also serve to reduce any gain that we may have made based on favorable foreign currency fluctuations. in addition, to the extent we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. because our consolidated financial results are reported in dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings and can make it more difficult for our shareholders to understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-over-period comparative basis. increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where the company has higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where it has lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. we are also subject to the examination of our income tax returns by other tax authorities and the outcome of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we have overseas manufacturing, administrative and sales offices and generate substantial revenues and profits in foreign jurisdictions. recently, a number of countries, including the united states, have proposed changes to their tax laws, some of which affect taxation of earnings recognized in foreign jurisdictions. such changes in tax laws or their interpretation, if adopted, could adversely affect our effective tax rates and our results. volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan for employees in the united states. this defined benefit pension plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, discount rates and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plan and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plan. a significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. 25 we manage our businesses utilizing complex computer systems that are regularly maintained and upgraded; an interruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to expend excessive costs. we utilize complex computer systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units and we have a continuous improvement strategy in place to keep our systems and overarching technology stable and in line with business needs and growth. regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are typical and expected. we employ controlled change management methodologies to plan, test and execute all such system upgrades and improvements, and we believe that we assign adequate staffing and other resources to projects to ensure successful implementation. however, we cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. we cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing, engineering and scientific personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, and our rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations and (ii) the authority of our board to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock with such terms as our board may determine. we also have the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have similar effects. our board of directors extended our preferred stock purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, pursuant to an amended rights agreement dated as of october 29, 2007 that expires on october 29, 2017. the rights agreement is intended to prevent abusive hostile takeover attempts by requiring a potential acquirer to negotiate the terms of an acquisition with our board of directors. however, it could have the effect of deterring or preventing an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of our stockholders would be in favor of such acquisition, and could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to gain control of the company or to change existing management. risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device's design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion and distribution, as well as the export of medical devices manufactured in the united states to foreign markets. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of 26 administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. our medical devices require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such clearances and approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements will occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda may change its policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products or could impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. for example, the fda has recently been reviewing the premarket clearance process in response to internal and external concerns regarding the 510(k) program. in january 2011, the fda announced a plan of action that included twenty-five action items designed to make the process more rigorous and transparent. since then the fda has implemented some changes intended to improve its premarket programs. some of these changes and proposals under consideration could impose additional regulatory requirements on us that could delay our ability to obtain new 510(k) clearances for our products, increase the cost of compliance, or restrict our ability to maintain our current clearances. modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer's decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, the fda may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted, and failure to comply with fda regulations prohibiting a manufacturer from promoting a device for an unapproved, or off-label use could result in enforcement action by the fda, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil or criminal penalties. development and marketing of our products are subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. 27 in the european economic area, a medical device can only be placed on the market if it is in conformity with the essential requirements set out in the european directives and implementing regulations that govern medical devices. these directives prescribe quality programs and standards which must be maintained in order to achieve required iso certification and to approve the use of ce marking. in order to maintain iso certification and ce marking quality benchmarks, firms' quality systems and procedures are subjected to rigorous periodic inspections and reassessment audits. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. however, our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda's qsr regulations, which require manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. medical device manufacturers, such as coopervision and coopersurgical, may under their own initiative recall a product if a reasonable possibility of serious injury or any material deficiency in a device is found. for example, coopervision recently concluded a recall of limited lots of avaira toric contact lenses and avaira sphere contact lenses. recalls of any of our products may divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a recall could harm our reputation with customers and consumers which could reduce the sales of our products. in addition, the fda or other foreign governmental agencies may implement enforcement actions in connection with a recall which could impair our product offerings and be harmful to our business and financial results. changes in legislation and government regulation of the healthcare industry as well as third-party payors' efforts to control the costs of healthcare could materially adversely affect our business. in recent years, an increasing number of healthcare reform proposals have been formulated by the legislative and executive branches of the united states federal and state governments. in march 2010, the president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act, which we refer to collectively as the health care reform law. the health care reform law makes extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the united states. among the provisions of the health care reform law, of greatest importance to the medical device industry are the following: a 2.3 percent excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the united states, with limited exceptions, which exceptions include all contact lenses, effective january 1, 2013; a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; 28 new reporting and disclosure requirements on medical device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective march 30, 2013; payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models, beginning on or before january 1, 2013; creation of the independent payment advisory board which, beginning in 2014, will have authority to recommend certain changes to reduce medicare spending and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if congress doesn't act on the recommendations; and establishment of a center for medicare innovation at the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower medicare and medicaid spending, beginning by january 1, 2011. these measures could result in decreased net revenues or increased expenses from our medical device products and decrease potential returns from our development efforts. many of the details regarding the implementation of the health care reform law are yet to be determined, and at this time, the full effect that the health care reform law would have on our business remains unclear. for example, the recently enacted health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 imposes a new excise tax of 2.3 percent of the price for which certain medical devices are sold and takes effect on january 1, 2013. coopervision is not affected by this new tax because contact lenses are excluded from the tax. however, united states sales of almost all of coopersurgical's products will be subject to this new tax. we cannot anticipate at this time the magnitude of this new tax as there are significant uncertainties concerning key definitions and terms within the law. also, any adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. in addition, we may experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to additional legislative proposals or healthcare reform initiatives, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products. future legislation and regulations may adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. in addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the united states or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. these cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the costs of complying with the requirements of federal laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. other federal legislation affects the manner in which we use and disclose health information. the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards for the electronic exchange of health information that may require significant and costly changes to current practices. the united states department of health and human services (hhs) has released several rules mandating the use of specified standards with respect to certain healthcare transactions and health information. the electronic transactions rule requires the use of uniform standards for common healthcare transactions, including healthcare claims information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, 29 claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, plan premium payments and coordination of benefits. the privacy rule imposes standards governing the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. the security rule released by hhs establishes minimum standards for the security of electronic health information, and requires the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards. additionally, the health information technology for economic and clinical health (hitech) act of 2009 was signed into law as part of the america's recovery and reinvestment act in february 2009. previously, hipaa directly regulated only certain covered entities, such as health care providers and health plans. under the hitech act, certain of hipaa's privacy and security standards are now also directly applicable to covered entities' business associates. as a result, business associates are now subject to civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with applicable privacy and security rule requirements. moreover, the hitech act set forth new notification requirements for health data security breaches, increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce hipaa and seek attorney's fees and costs associated with pursuing federal actions. while we do not believe that we are a covered entity or a business associate under hipaa, many of our customers may be covered entities or business associates subject to hipaa. some customers as an expectation of transacting business with us may require us to enter into business associate agreements, which would obligate us to safeguard and restrict the manner in which we use certain protected health information (as defined by hipaa) that we obtain in the course of our commercial relationship with them, triggering potential liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. alternatively, some customers may limit the scope of our commercial relationship with them with regard to our access to certain protected health information. pursuant to the hitech act, if the government determines that we are a business associate, we could be additionally subject to direct governmental enforcement for failure to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. the costs of complying with these contractual obligations and new legal and regulatory requirements, and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws and false claims laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. indeed, recent changes in state laws and model codes of ethics have already required us to alter certain of our compliance efforts. for example, in april of 2009, massachusetts issued regulations governing the conduct of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with respect to healthcare practitioners. this regulation became effective on july 1, 2009 and sets forth what medical device manufacturers may and may not permissibly do with respect to providing meals, sponsoring continuing medical education and otherwise providing payments or items of economic benefit to healthcare practitioners located within the state. additionally, the regulation requires medical device manufacturers to have in place robust fraud and abuse compliance programs. other states (e.g., california, vermont and nevada) have 30 adopted similar laws. the advanced medical technology association (advamed), a trade association representing the interests of medical device manufacturers, has also recently released a revised code of ethics outlining permissible interactions with health care professionals. this code became effective july 1, 2009. these laws, regulations and guidance documents act to limit our marketing practices, require the dedication of resources to ensure compliance, and expose us to additional liabilities. in addition, the recent health care reform law, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and certain criminal healthcare fraud statutes so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. the health care reform law also provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of these statutes constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil false claims act or the civil monetary penalties statute. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, changes in these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to further change our business practices or subject our existing business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. the company is exposed to market risks that relate principally to changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. the company's policy is to reduce, to the extent reasonable and practical, its exposure to the impact of changing interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations by entering into a limited number of interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, respectively. the company does not emphasize such transactions to the same degree as some other companies with international operations. the company does not enter into derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. we operate multiple foreign subsidiaries that manufacture and market our products worldwide. as a result, our earnings, cash flow and financial position are exposed to foreign currency risk from foreign currency denominated receivables and payables, sales transactions, capital expenditures and net investment in certain foreign operations. we are exposed to risks caused by changes in foreign exchange, primarily to the british pound, euro, japanese yen, danish krone, swedish krona, australian dollar and canadian dollar. our policy is to minimize, to the extent reasonable and practical, transaction, remeasurement and specified economic exposures with derivatives instruments. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our nonfunctional currency exposure, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the united states dollar would not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors and note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. we are also exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates, as the interest rate on our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, or credit agreement, may vary with the london interbank offered rate (libor). we have decreased this interest rate risk by hedging a significant portion of variable rate debt effectively converting it to fixed rate debt for varying periods through december 2014. on may 31, 2012, we entered into an amendment to our credit agreement, originally entered into on january 12, 2011. the aggregate commitment was increased to $1.0 billion from $750.0 million, and the $234.4 million outstanding balance on the term loan was fully repaid using the amended credit agreement facility. this facility offers additional availability, lower interest rates and extends the maturity date to may 31, 2017, from january 12, 2016. in addition, we have the ability to increase the facility by up to an additional $500.0 million. keybank led the refinancing with certain banks that participated in the credit agreement retaining or increasing their participation. in february 2011, we redeemed all $339.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of our 7.125% senior notes issued on january 31, 2007, in accordance with the terms of the indenture from borrowings under the credit agreement. in accordance with the indenture, the redemption price for the notes was 103.563% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to february 15, 2011, the redemption date. in fiscal 2011, we recorded a $16.5 million loss on the repurchase that includes the write-off of about $4.4 million of unamortized costs and the redemption premium of $12.1 million related to the senior notes on our consolidated statement of income. october 31, (in millions) 2012 2011 short-term debt $ 25.3 $ 52.9 long-term debt 348.4 327.5 total $ 373.7 $ 380.4 58 at october 31, 2012, the scheduled maturities of the company's fixed and variable rate long-term debt obligations, their weighted average interest rates and their estimated fair values were as follows: expected maturity date fiscal year ($ in millions) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value long-term debt: fixed interest rate $ 0.1 $ 0.1 $ 0.7 $ 0.5 $ 0.5 $ 0.4 $ 2.3 $ 2.3 average interest rate 2.3 % 2.2 % 2.3 % 2.8 % 4.8 % 4.8 % variable interest rate $ $ $ $ $346.1 $ $346.1 $346.1 average interest rate 1.5 % 1.5 % 1.5 % 1.5 % 1.5 % as the table incorporates only those exposures that existed as of october 31, 2012, it does not consider those exposures or positions which could arise after that date. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on interest rates, the exposures that arise during the period and our hedging strategies at that time. as of october 31, 2012, the company has interest rate swaps outstanding that are designed to fix the borrowing costs related to $200.0 million of the outstanding balance on the company's revolving credit agreement. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1% or 100 basis points, annual interest expense would increase or decrease by about $1.5 million. for further information about the company's debt, see item 1a. risk factors and note 1 and note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 59risk factors 18 risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive healthcare industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens business, coopervision faces intense competition from competitors' products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our major competitors in the contact lens business, johnson &amp; johnson vision care, inc., ciba vision (owned by novartis ag) and bausch &amp; lomb, inc. (owned by valeant pharmaceuticals international, inc.), have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and/or larger manufacturing volumes than coopervision. they offer competitive products and differentiated materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. the market for contact lenses is intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to introduce new products successfully, on a timely basis in the americas, emea and asia pacific, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, coopervision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, or that our competitors' newer contact lens products will not successfully erode coopervision's contact lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the women's healthcare market, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians and hospitals. coopersurgical competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche areas, some of which have substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. acquisitions that we have made and may make in the future involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at coopersurgical, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future acquisitions could result in 18 potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. in fiscal 2012, coopersurgical completed the acquisition of origio a/s. this acquisition added significant operations to coopersurgical and greatly expanded its international business. the origio acquisition has correspondingly added risks to coopersurgical. risks we could face with respect to acquisitions, including the origio acquisition, include: difficulties in, and expenses related to, the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations or terminate our employees; a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations. product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence if we are unable to develop new products or gain regulatory approvals or if our competitors introduce new products. product innovations are important in the contact lens market in which coopervision competes and in the areas of the healthcare industry in which coopersurgical competes. coopersurgical does not allocate substantial resources to new product development, but rather it has historically purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. coopervision has been investing in new product development since 2005, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. although coopervision focuses on products that will be marketable immediately or in the short to medium term rather than on funding longer-term, higher risk research and development projects, time commitments, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies, such as contact lenses with anti-microbial or anti-allergenic features, that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. competitors may also introduce new uses for contact lenses, such as for drug delivery or the control of myopia. failure to develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them, assuming they receive necessary regulatory approvals, will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. in addition, we have been slower to introduce new silicone hydrogel contact lens products than our competitors which put these products at a competitive disadvantage. the 19 development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: acceptance of our products by eye care and women's healthcare practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory requirements; adequate coverage and reimbursement by third party payors; the earlier release of competitive products, such as silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care and women's healthcare industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, may limit demand for our products. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. if these new advances provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations for coopervision and our newly acquired origio business are conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america and europe. approximately two-thirds of our net sales for coopervision for the fiscal years ended october 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; we may find it difficult to grow in emerging markets such as china, india and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped distribution channels, regulatory restrictions and business knowledge of these new markets; tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of united states and foreign compliance and regulatory requirements such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the dodd-frank act and the u.k. bribery act; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; 20 foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; and we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business. in the united states and globally, market and economic conditions have been unprecedented over the past few years and challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth. the u.s. economy has experienced a recession and faces continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions such as the growing u.s. deficit, high energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and an unstable real estate market. foreign countries, in particular the euro zone, are affected by similar systemic impacts. as a result, we continue to have lower than historical expectations for market growth in fiscal 2014. continued turbulence in the united states and international markets and economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. if these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face risks associated with disruption of manufacturing and distribution operations and failure to develop new manufacturing processes that could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing or distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), enforcement action by the fda or other regulatory body if we are found to be in non-compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. while we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete. 21 coopervision manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent the majority of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom and puerto rico. coopersurgical manufactures the majority of its products in trumbull, connecticut, stafford, texas, malov, denmark, and pasadena, california. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we generally have not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. coopervision distributes products out of west henrietta, new york, hampshire, united kingdom, liege, belgium and various smaller international distribution facilities. coopersurgical's products are primarily distributed out of its facilities in trumbull, connecticut, and malov, denmark. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, our products could be subject to recall, and sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda's cgmp for medical devices, known as the qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to pass a cgmp, qsr or similar foreign inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. we rely on independent suppliers for raw materials and we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice. we rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals and packaging materials. raw materials used in our operations are generally available from more than one source. however, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. for example, some of the primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, including myday, biofinity and avaira, are supplied by a sole supplier. we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products if our suppliers, particularly those which are the sole source of any necessary material, fail to supply sufficient material on a timely basis or at all for any reason and/or we need to switch to an alternative supplier. a disruption in the supply of raw materials could disrupt production of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete in this important segment of the contact lens market. 22 if we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also may seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. we also cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. both coopervision and coopersurgical also rely on unpatented proprietary technology or technology where patents will expire in less than a few years. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. we rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. to maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. we also might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. 23 the laws of foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future may not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products or processes could be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others. our competitors in both the united states and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. in the contact lens industry, coopervision and its competitors all hold patents covering contact lens designs, business methods, processes and materials. claims that our products, business methods or processes infringe upon the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales of products incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industries. for example, coopervision has faced significant patent litigation over its silicone hydrogel contact lens products. third parties have made, and may make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology. any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or reengineer our products, if feasible; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product that is the subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to 24 product liability claims or recalls, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing products, in the future. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of united states federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facilities under certain circumstances. our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain our desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we currently use, and may continue to use, interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful 25 in structuring such swap agreements to manage our risks effectively, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations and our foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. to the extent we are unable to materially offset non-nonfunctional currency flows, exchange rate fluctuations could have a positive or negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings and can make it more difficult for our shareholders to understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-over-period comparative basis. although from time to time we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our net exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our non-functional currency obligations or balances, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where the company has higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where it has lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. we are also subject to the examination of our income tax returns by other tax authorities and the outcome of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we have overseas manufacturing, administrative and sales offices and generate substantial revenues and profits in foreign jurisdictions. recently, a number of countries, including the united states, have proposed changes to their tax laws, some of which affect taxation of earnings recognized in foreign jurisdictions. such changes in tax laws or their interpretation, if adopted, could adversely affect our effective tax rates and our results. volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan for employees in the united states. this defined benefit pension plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, discount rates and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plan and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plan. a significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. 26 we manage our businesses utilizing complex computer systems that are regularly maintained and upgraded; an interruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to expend excessive costs. we utilize complex computer systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units and we have a continuous improvement strategy in place to keep our systems and overarching technology stable and in line with business needs and growth. regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are typical and expected. we employ controlled change management methodologies to plan, test and execute all such system upgrades and improvements, and we believe that we assign adequate staffing and other resources to projects to ensure successful implementation. however, we cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. we cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing, engineering and scientific personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, and our rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations and (ii) the authority of our board to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock with such terms as our board may determine. we also have the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have similar effects. our board of directors extended our preferred stock purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, pursuant to an amended rights agreement dated as of october 29, 2007, that expires on october 29, 2017. the rights agreement is intended to prevent abusive hostile takeover attempts by requiring a potential acquirer to negotiate the terms of an acquisition with our board of directors. however, it could have the effect of deterring or preventing an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of our stockholders would be in favor of such acquisition, and could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to gain control of the company or to change existing management. risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device's design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling (including, for example the upcoming fda unique device identifier regulations), storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion and distribution, as well as the export of medical devices manufactured in the united states to foreign markets. 27 our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. our medical devices require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such clearances and approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements will occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda may change its policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products or could impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. for example, the fda recently has been reviewing the premarket clearance process in response to internal and external concerns regarding the 510(k) program. in january 2011, the fda announced a plan of action that included twenty-five action items designed to make the process more rigorous and transparent. since then the fda has implemented some changes intended to improve its premarket programs. some of these changes and proposals under consideration could impose additional regulatory requirements on us that could delay our ability to obtain new 510(k) clearances for our products, increase the cost of compliance, or restrict our ability to maintain our current clearances. modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer's decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, the fda may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted, and failure to comply with fda regulations prohibiting a manufacturer from promoting a device for an unapproved, or off-label use could result in enforcement action by the fda, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil or criminal penalties. development and marketing of our products are subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, the reporting of certain payments to health care practitioners in certain markets (for example, the french sunshine act of 2013), duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. 28 in the european economic area, a medical device can only be placed on the market if it is in conformity with the essential requirements set out in the european directives and implementing regulations that govern medical devices. these directives prescribe quality programs and standards which must be maintained in order to achieve required iso certification and to approve the use of ce marking. in order to maintain iso certification and ce marking quality benchmarks, firms' quality systems and procedures are subjected to rigorous periodic inspections and reassessment audits. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. however, our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda's qsr regulations, which require manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. medical device manufacturers, such as coopervision and coopersurgical, may under their own initiative recall a product if a reasonable possibility of serious injury or any material deficiency in a device is found. for example, coopervision recently concluded a recall of limited lots of avaira toric contact lenses and avaira sphere contact lenses. recalls of any of our products may divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a recall could harm our reputation with customers and consumers which could reduce the sales of our products. in addition, the fda or other foreign governmental agencies may implement enforcement actions in connection with a recall which could impair our product offerings and be harmful to our business and financial results. changes in legislation and government regulation of the healthcare industry as well as third-party payors' efforts to control the costs of healthcare could materially adversely affect our business. in recent years, an increasing number of healthcare reform proposals have been formulated by the legislative and executive branches of the united states federal and state governments. in march 2010, the president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act, which we refer to collectively as the health care reform law. the health care reform law makes extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the united states. among the provisions of the health care reform law, of greatest importance to the medical device industry are the following: a 2.3 percent excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the united states, with limited exceptions, which exceptions include all contact lenses; a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; new reporting and disclosure requirements on medical device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, and any ownership and investment 29 interests held by physicians or their immediate family members, and any payments or other transfers of value to such owners. manufacturers were required to begin data collection on august 1, 2013 and will be required to report such data to the government by march 31, 2014 and by the 90 th calendar day of each year thereafter; payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models; creation of the independent payment advisory board which, beginning in 2014, will have authority to recommend certain changes to reduce medicare spending and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if congress doesn't act on the recommendations; and establishment of a center for medicare innovation at the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower medicare and medicaid spending. these measures could result in decreased net revenues or increased expenses from our medical device products and decrease potential returns from our development efforts. at this time, the full effect that the health care reform law would have on our business remains unclear. for example, the health care reform law imposes a new excise tax of 2.3 percent of the price for which certain medical devices are sold, which went into effect on january 1, 2013. coopervision is not affected by this new tax because contact lenses are excluded from the tax. however, united states sales of almost all of coopersurgical's products are subject to this new tax. we cannot anticipate at this time the magnitude of this new tax as there are significant uncertainties concerning key definitions and terms within the law. other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the health care reform law was enacted. on august 2, 2011, the president signed into law the budget control act of 2011, which, among other things, created the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reductions to several government programs. these reductions include aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013. on january 2, 2013, president obama signed into law the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. we expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products, or result in additional pricing pressures. also, any adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. in addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the united states or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. these cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 the costs of complying with the requirements of federal laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. other federal legislation affects the manner in which we use and disclose health information. the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards for the electronic exchange of health information that may require significant and costly changes to current practices. the united states department of health and human services (hhs) has released several rules mandating the use of specified standards with respect to certain healthcare transactions and health information. the electronic transactions rule requires the use of uniform standards for common healthcare transactions, including healthcare claims information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, plan premium payments and coordination of benefits. the privacy rule imposes standards governing the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. the security rule released by hhs establishes minimum standards for the security of electronic health information, and requires the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards. additionally, the health information technology for economic and clinical health (hitech) act of 2009 was signed into law as part of the america's recovery and reinvestment act in february 2009. previously, hipaa directly regulated only certain covered entities, such as health care providers and health plans. under the hitech act, certain of hipaa's privacy and security standards are now also directly applicable to covered entities' business associates. as a result, business associates are now subject to civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with applicable privacy and security rule requirements. moreover, the hitech act set forth new notification requirements for health data security breaches, increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce hipaa and seek attorney's fees and costs associated with pursuing federal actions. while we do not believe that we are a covered entity or a business associate under hipaa, many of our customers may be covered entities or business associates subject to hipaa. some customers as an expectation of transacting business with us may require us to enter into business associate agreements, which would obligate us to safeguard and restrict the manner in which we use certain protected health information (as defined by hipaa) that we obtain in the course of our commercial relationship with them, triggering potential liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. alternatively, some customers may limit the scope of our commercial relationship with them with regard to our access to certain protected health information. pursuant to the hitech act, if the government determines that we are a business associate, we could be additionally subject to direct governmental enforcement for failure to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. in addition, the final omnibus rule released in january 2013, among other things, modifies the breach reporting standard in a manner that will likely make more data security incidents qualify as reportable breaches. the costs of complying with these contractual obligations and new legal and regulatory requirements, and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws and false claims laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. indeed, changes in state laws and model codes of ethics have required us to alter certain of our compliance efforts. for example, in april of 2009, massachusetts issued regulations governing the conduct of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with respect to healthcare practitioners. this regulation became effective on july 1, 2009 and sets forth what medical device manufacturers may and may not permissibly do with respect to providing meals, sponsoring continuing medical education and otherwise providing payments or items of economic benefit to healthcare practitioners located within the state. additionally, the regulation requires medical device manufacturers to have in place robust fraud and abuse compliance programs. other states (e.g., california, vermont and nevada) have adopted similar laws. the advanced medical technology association (advamed), a trade association representing the interests of medical device manufacturers, has also released a revised code of ethics outlining permissible interactions with health care professionals. this code became effective july 1, 2009. these laws, regulations and guidance documents act to limit our marketing practices, require the dedication of resources to ensure compliance, and expose us to additional liabilities. in addition, the recent health care reform law, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and certain criminal healthcare fraud statutes so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. the health care reform law also provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of these statutes constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil false claims act or the civil monetary penalties statute. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, changes in these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to further change our business practices or subject our existing business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. we are exposed to market risks that relate principally to changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. our policy is to reduce, to the extent reasonable and practical, its exposure to the impact of changing interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations by entering into a limited number of interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, respectively. we do not emphasize such transactions to the same degree as some other companies with international operations. we do not enter into derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. we operate multiple foreign subsidiaries that manufacture and market our products worldwide. as a result, our earnings, cash flow and financial position are exposed to foreign currency risk from foreign currency denominated receivables and payables, sales transactions, capital expenditures and net investment in certain foreign operations. we are exposed to risks caused by changes in foreign exchange, primarily to the british pound, euro and japanese yen. our policy is to minimize, to the extent reasonable and practical, transaction, remeasurement and specified economic exposures with derivatives instruments. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our nonfunctional currency exposure, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the united states dollar would not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors and note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. we are also exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates, as the interest rate on our senior unsecured syndicated credit facilities, including the revolving credit agreement and term loan, may vary with the london interbank offered rate (libor). we have decreased this interest rate risk by hedging a significant portion of variable rate debt effectively converting it to fixed rate debt for varying periods through december 2014. on september 12, 2013, we entered into a five-year, $300.0 million, senior unsecured term loan agreement (term loan) that will mature on september 12, 2018, and will be subject to amortization of principal of 5% per year payable quarterly beginning october 31, 2016, with the balance payable at maturity. we utilized the funds provided by this term loan to repay amounts outstanding on our revolving credit agreement, and at october 31, 2013, $300.0 million remained outstanding on the term loan. on may 31, 2012, we entered into an amendment to our credit agreement, originally entered into on january 12, 2011. the aggregate revolving commitment was increased to $1.0 billion from $750.0 million. this facility offers additional availability, lower interest rates and extends the maturity date to may 31, 2017, from january 12, 2016. in addition, we have the ability to increase the facility by up to an additional $500.0 million. keybank led the refinancing with certain banks that participated in the credit agreement retaining or increasing their participation. in february 2011, we redeemed all $339.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of our 7.125% senior notes issued on january 31, 2007, in accordance with the terms of the indenture from borrowings under the credit agreement. in accordance with the indenture, the redemption price for the notes was 103.563% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to february 15, 2011, the redemption date. in fiscal 2011, we recorded a $16.5 million loss on the repurchase that includes the write-off of about $4.4 million of unamortized costs and the redemption premium of $12.1 million related to the senior notes on our consolidated statement of income. 61 october 31, (in millions) 2013 2012 short-term debt $ 43.0 $ 25.3 long-term debt 301.7 348.4 total $ 344.7 $ 373.7 at october 31, 2013 the scheduled maturities of our fixed and variable rate long-term debt obligations, their weighted average interest rates and their estimated fair values were as follows: expected maturity date fiscal year ($ in millions) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value long-term debt: fixed interest rate $ $ 0.4 $ 0.4 $ 0.4 $ $ 0.5 $ 1.7 $ 1.7 average interest rate 2.1 % 2.5 % 3.1 % 4.8 % 4.8 % 4.8 % variable interest rate $ $ $ 3.8 $15.0 $281.2 $ $300.0 $300.0 average interest rate 1.0 % 1.0 % 1.0 % 1.0 % 1.0 % as the table incorporates only those exposures that existed as of october 31, 2013 , it does not consider those exposures or positions which could arise after that date. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on interest rates, the exposures that arise during the period and our hedging strategies at that time. as of october 31, 2013 , we had interest rate swaps outstanding that are designed to fix the variable borrowing costs related to $200.0 million of the outstanding balance on our credit agreements. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1% or 100 basis points, annual interest expense would increase or decrease by about $1.0 million. for further information about our debt, see item 1a. risk factors and note 1 and note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 62risk factors 17 risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive healthcare industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens business, coopervision faces intense competition from competitors' products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our major competitors in the contact lens business, johnson &amp; johnson vision care, inc., ciba vision (owned by novartis ag) and bausch &amp; lomb, inc. (owned by valeant pharmaceuticals international, inc.), have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and/or larger manufacturing volumes than coopervision. they offer competitive products and differentiated materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. the market for contact lenses is intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to introduce new products successfully, on a timely basis in the americas, emea and asia pacific, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, coopervision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, for example with increased product entries from asia pacific contact lens manufacturers, or that our competitors' newer contact lens products will not successfully erode coopervision's contact lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the women's healthcare market, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians and hospitals. coopersurgical competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche areas, some of which have substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. acquisitions that we have made and may make in the future involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at coopersurgical and more recently at coopervision, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future 17 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. in fiscal 2014, coopervision completed the acquisition of sauflon pharmaceuticals limited, and in fiscal 2012, coopersurgical completed the acquisition of origio a/s. these acquisitions added significant operations to coopervision and coopersurgical, respectively, and greatly expanded their international businesses. the acquisitions have, correspondingly, added risks we could face with respect to acquisitions and include: failure to successfully obtain the anticipated revenues, margins and earnings benefits, including the sauflon acquisition; difficulties in, and expenses related to, the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures; increased leverage and the risk of lack of access to available financing, including financing for the acquisition or refinancing of debt owed by us on a timely basis and on reasonable terms; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities, contingent liabilities or indemnification obligations of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations or terminate our employees; a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations and the risk that we are required to record significant adjustments to the preliminary fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed within the measurement period. product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence if we are unable to develop new products or gain regulatory approvals or if our competitors introduce new products. product innovations are important in the contact lens market in which coopervision competes and in the areas of the healthcare industry in which coopersurgical competes. coopersurgical has not allocated substantial resources to new product development, but rather it has historically purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. coopersurgical has recently invested in expanding the internal research and development function with the goal of organizational growth and to complement our acquisitions strategy. coopervision has been investing in new product development since 2005, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. research and development time commitments, higher feasibility risk with longer term projects, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies, such as contact lenses with anti-microbial or anti-allergenic features, that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. competitors may also introduce new uses for contact 18 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries lenses, such as for drug delivery or the control of myopia. failure to develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them, assuming they receive necessary regulatory approvals, will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. in addition, we have been slower to introduce new silicone hydrogel contact lens products than our competitors which put these products at a competitive disadvantage. the development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: acceptance of our products by eye care and women's healthcare practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory requirements; adequate coverage and reimbursement by third party payors; the earlier release of competitive products, such as silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care and women's healthcare industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, may limit demand for our products. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. if these new advances provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations for coopervision and our newly acquired sauflon and origio businesses are conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america and europe. approximately two-thirds of our net sales for coopervision for the fiscal years ended october 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; 19 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries we may find it difficult to grow in emerging markets such as china, india, russia and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped distribution channels, regulatory restrictions and changes, and business knowledge of these new markets; tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of united states and foreign compliance and regulatory requirements such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the dodd-frank act and the u.k. bribery act; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce and other nations import-export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities, including but not limited to increased enforcement of potentially conflicting and ambiguous anti-bribery laws; and we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business. in the united states and globally, market and economic conditions have been unprecedented over the past few years and challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth. the u.s. economy has experienced a recession and faces continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions such as the growing u.s. deficit, high energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and an unstable real estate market. foreign countries, in particular the euro zone, are affected by similar systemic impacts. as a result, we continue to have lower than historical expectations for market growth in fiscal 2015. continued turbulence particularly in international markets and economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. if these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries we face risks associated with disruption of manufacturing and distribution operations and failure to develop new manufacturing processes that could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing or distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), enforcement action by the fda or other regulatory body if we are found to be in non-compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. while we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete. coopervision manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent the majority of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom and puerto rico. through the sauflon acquisition, coopervision acquired manufacturing facilities in the united kingdom and hungary. coopersurgical manufactures the majority of its products in trumbull, connecticut, stafford, texas, malov, denmark, and pasadena, california. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we generally have not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. coopervision distributes products out of west henrietta, new york, hampshire, united kingdom, liege, belgium and various smaller international distribution facilities. coopersurgical's products are primarily distributed out of its facilities in trumbull, connecticut, and malov, denmark. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, our products could be subject to recall, and sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda's cgmp for medical devices, known as the qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to pass a cgmp, qsr or similar foreign inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. 21 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries we rely on independent suppliers for raw materials and we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice. we rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals and packaging materials. raw materials used in our operations are generally available from more than one source. however, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. for example, some of the primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, including myday, biofinity, avaira and clariti, are supplied by a sole supplier. we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products if our suppliers, particularly those which are the sole source of any necessary material, fail to supply sufficient material on a timely basis or at all for any reason and/or we need to switch to an alternative supplier. a disruption in the supply of raw materials could disrupt production of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete in this important segment of the contact lens market. if we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also may seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. we also cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. both coopervision and coopersurgical also rely on unpatented proprietary technology or technology where patents will expire in less than a few years. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived 22 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. we rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. to maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. we also might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. the laws of foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future may not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products or processes could be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others. our competitors in both the united states and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. in the contact lens industry, coopervision and its competitors all hold patents covering contact lens designs, business methods, processes and materials. claims that our products, business methods or processes infringe upon the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales of products incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industries. for example, coopervision has faced significant patent litigation over its silicone hydrogel contact lens products. third parties have made, and may make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology. any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or reengineer our products, if feasible; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 23 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product that is the subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing products, in the future. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of united states federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and 24 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facilities under certain circumstances. our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain our desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we currently use, and may continue to use, interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to manage our risks effectively, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations and our foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. to the extent we are unable to materially offset non-nonfunctional currency flows, exchange rate fluctuations could have a positive or negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings and can make it more difficult for our shareholders to understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-over-period comparative basis. although from time to time we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our net exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our non-functional currency obligations or balances, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where the company has higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where it has lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. we are also subject to the examination of our income tax returns by other tax authorities and the outcome of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we have overseas manufacturing, administrative and sales offices and generate substantial revenues and profits in foreign jurisdictions. recently, a number of countries, including the united states, have proposed changes to their tax laws, some of which affect taxation of earnings recognized in foreign jurisdictions. such changes in tax laws or their interpretation, if adopted, could adversely affect our effective tax rates and our results. 25 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan for employees in the united states. this defined benefit pension plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, discount rates and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plan and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plan. a significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. we manage our businesses utilizing complex computer systems that are regularly maintained and upgraded; an interruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to expend excessive costs. we utilize complex computer systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units and we have a continuous improvement strategy in place to keep our systems and overarching technology stable and in line with business needs and growth. regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are typical and expected. we employ controlled change management methodologies to plan, test and execute all such system upgrades and improvements, and we believe that we assign adequate staffing and other resources to projects to ensure successful implementation. however, we cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. we cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems. we attempt to protect our computer and communications systems but may experience interruptions and breaches including computer viruses, malicious software, cyberattacks and "hacking, that could impair our ability to conduct business and communicate internally and with our customers, or result in the theft of trade secrets or other misappropriation of assets, or otherwise compromise privacy of our sensitive information, or that of our customers or other business partners. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing, engineering and scientific personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, and our rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations and (ii) the authority of our board to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock with such terms as our board may determine. we also have the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have 26 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries similar effects. our board of directors extended our preferred stock purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, pursuant to an amended rights agreement dated as of october 29, 2007, that expires on october 29, 2017. the rights agreement is intended to prevent abusive hostile takeover attempts by requiring a potential acquirer to negotiate the terms of an acquisition with our board of directors. however, it could have the effect of deterring or preventing an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of our stockholders would be in favor of such acquisition, and could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to gain control of the company or to change existing management. risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device's design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling (including, for example the upcoming fda unique device identifier regulations), storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion and distribution, as well as the export of medical devices manufactured in the united states to foreign markets. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. our medical devices require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining, renewing and maintaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such clearances and approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements will occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda and foreign jurisdictions may change its policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products or could impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. for example, the fda recently has been reviewing the premarket clearance process in response to internal and external concerns regarding the 510(k) program. in january 2011, the fda announced a plan of action that included twenty-five action items designed to make the process more rigorous and transparent. since then the fda has implemented some changes intended to improve its premarket programs. some of these changes and proposals under consideration could impose additional regulatory requirements on us that could delay our ability to obtain new 510(k) clearances for our products, increase the cost of compliance, or restrict our ability to maintain our current clearances. modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer's decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have 27 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, the fda may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted, and failure to comply with fda regulations prohibiting a manufacturer from promoting a device for an unapproved, or off-label use could result in enforcement action by the fda, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil or criminal penalties. development and marketing of our products are subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, the reporting of certain payments to health care practitioners in certain markets (for example, the french sunshine act of 2013), duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. in the european economic area, a medical device can only be placed on the market if it is in conformity with the essential requirements set out in the european directives and implementing regulations that govern medical devices. these directives prescribe quality programs and standards which must be maintained in order to achieve required iso certification and to approve the use of ce marking. in order to maintain iso certification and ce marking quality benchmarks, firms' quality systems and procedures are subjected to rigorous periodic inspections and reassessment audits. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. however, our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda's qsr regulations, which require manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. medical device manufacturers, such as coopervision and coopersurgical, may under their own initiative recall a product if a reasonable possibility of serious injury or any material deficiency in a device is found. for example, coopervision recently concluded a recall of limited lots of avaira toric contact lenses and avaira sphere contact lenses. recalls of any of our products may divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a recall could harm our reputation with customers and consumers which could reduce the sales of our products. in addition, the 28 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries fda or other foreign governmental agencies may implement enforcement actions in connection with a recall which could impair our product offerings and be harmful to our business and financial results. changes in legislation and government regulation of the healthcare industry as well as third-party payors' efforts to control the costs of healthcare could materially adversely affect our business. in recent years, an increasing number of healthcare reform proposals have been formulated by the legislative and executive branches of the united states federal and state governments. in march 2010, the president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act, which we refer to collectively as the health care reform law. the health care reform law makes extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the united states. among the provisions of the health care reform law, of greatest importance to the medical device industry are the following: a 2.3 percent excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the united states, with limited exceptions, which exceptions include all contact lenses; a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; new reporting and disclosure requirements on medical device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, and any ownership and investment interests held by physicians or their immediate family members, and any payments or other transfers of value to such owners. manufacturers were required to begin data collection on august 1, 2013 and were required to report such data to the government by march 31, 2014 and in future periods by the 90 th calendar day of each year thereafter; payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models; creation of the independent payment advisory board which, beginning in 2014, will have authority to recommend certain changes to reduce medicare spending and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if congress doesn't act on the recommendations; and establishment of a center for medicare innovation at the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower medicare and medicaid spending. these measures could result in decreased net revenues or increased expenses from our medical device products and decrease potential returns from our development efforts. at this time, the full effect that the health care reform law would have on our business remains unclear. for example, the health care reform law imposes a new excise tax of 2.3 percent of the price for which certain medical devices are sold, which went into effect on january 1, 2013. coopervision is not affected by this tax because contact lenses are excluded from the tax. however, united states sales of almost all of coopersurgical's products are subject to this tax. other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the health care reform law was enacted. on august 2, 2011, the president signed into law the budget control act of 2011, which, among other things, created the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reductions to several government programs. these reductions include aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013. on january 2, 2013, president obama signed into law the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. 29 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries we expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products, or result in additional pricing pressures. also, any adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. in addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the united states or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. these cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the costs of complying with the requirements of federal laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. other federal legislation affects the manner in which we use and disclose health information. the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards for the electronic exchange of health information that may require significant and costly changes to current practices. the united states department of health and human services (hhs) has released several rules mandating the use of specified standards with respect to certain healthcare transactions and health information. the electronic transactions rule requires the use of uniform standards for common healthcare transactions, including healthcare claims information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, plan premium payments and coordination of benefits. the privacy rule imposes standards governing the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. the security rule released by hhs establishes minimum standards for the security of electronic health information, and requires the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards. additionally, the health information technology for economic and clinical health (hitech) act of 2009 was signed into law as part of the america's recovery and reinvestment act in february 2009. previously, hipaa directly regulated only certain covered entities, such as health care providers and health plans. under the hitech act, certain of hipaa's privacy and security standards are now also directly applicable to covered entities' business associates. as a result, business associates are now subject to civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with applicable privacy and security rule requirements. moreover, the hitech act set forth new notification requirements for health data security breaches, increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce hipaa and seek attorney's fees and costs associated with pursuing federal actions. while with the possible exception of limited value-added software solutions for eye care professionals which we believe are hipaa compliant, we do not believe that we are a covered entity or a business associate under hipaa, many of our customers may be covered entities or business associates subject to hipaa. some customers as an expectation of transacting business with us may require us to enter into business associate 30 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries agreements, which would obligate us to safeguard and restrict the manner in which we use certain protected health information (as defined by hipaa) that we obtain in the course of our commercial relationship with them, triggering potential liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. alternatively, some customers may limit the scope of our commercial relationship with them with regard to our access to certain protected health information. pursuant to the hitech act, if the government determines that we are a business associate, we could be additionally subject to direct governmental enforcement for failure to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. in addition, the final omnibus rule released in january 2013, among other things, modifies the breach reporting standard in a manner that will likely make more data security incidents qualify as reportable breaches. the costs of complying with these contractual obligations and new legal and regulatory requirements, and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to the extent hipaa is applicable to certain ancillary practice management software services offered to eye care professionals, we believe those offerings are hipaa compliant. laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws and false claims laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. indeed, changes in state laws and model codes of ethics have required us to alter certain of our compliance efforts. for example, in april of 2009, massachusetts issued regulations governing the conduct of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with respect to healthcare practitioners. this regulation became effective on july 1, 2009 and sets forth what medical device manufacturers may and may not permissibly do with respect to providing meals, sponsoring continuing medical education and otherwise providing payments or items of economic benefit to healthcare practitioners located within the state. additionally, the regulation requires medical device manufacturers to have in place robust fraud and abuse compliance programs. other states (e.g., california, vermont and nevada) have adopted similar laws. the advanced medical technology association (advamed), a trade association representing the interests of medical device manufacturers, has also released a revised code of ethics outlining permissible interactions with health care professionals. this code became effective july 1, 2009. these laws, regulations and guidance documents act to limit our marketing practices, require the dedication of resources to ensure compliance, and expose us to additional liabilities. in addition, the recent health care reform law, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and certain criminal healthcare fraud statutes so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. the health care reform law also provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of these statutes constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil false claims act or the civil monetary penalties statute. 31 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, changes in these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to further change our business practices or subject our existing business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. we are exposed to market risks that relate principally to changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. our policy is to reduce, to the extent reasonable and practical, its exposure to the impact of changing interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations by entering into a limited number of interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, respectively. we do not emphasize such transactions to the same degree as some other companies with international operations. we do not enter into derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. we operate multiple foreign subsidiaries that manufacture and market our products worldwide. as a result, our earnings, cash flow and financial position are exposed to foreign currency risk from foreign currency denominated receivables and payables, sales transactions, capital expenditures and net investment in certain foreign operations. we are exposed to risks caused by changes in foreign exchange, primarily to the british pound sterling, euro, japanese yen, danish krone, swedish krona, australian dollar and canadian dollar. our policy is to minimize, to the extent reasonable and practical, transaction, remeasurement and specified economic exposures with derivatives instruments. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our nonfunctional currency exposure, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. a hypothetical 5% increase or decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the united states dollar would not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors and note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. we are also exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates, as the interest rate on our senior unsecured syndicated credit facilities, including the revolving credit agreement and term loans, may vary with the london interbank offered rate (libor). we have decreased this interest rate risk by hedging a portion of variable rate debt effectively converting it to fixed rate debt for varying periods through december 2014. on august 4, 2014, we entered into a three-year, $700.0 million, senior unsecured term loan agreement that will mature on august 4, 2017. there is no amortization of the principal, and we may prepay the loan balances from time to time, in whole or in part, with premium or penalty. at october 31, 2014, $700.0 million remained outstanding on this term loan. on september 12, 2013, we entered into a five-year, $300.0 million, senior unsecured term loan agreement that will mature on september 12, 2018, and will be subject to amortization of principal of 5% per year payable quarterly beginning october 31, 2016, with the balance payable at maturity. at october 31, 2014, $300.0 million remained outstanding on this term loan. on may 31, 2012, we entered into an amendment to our credit agreement, originally entered into on january 12, 2011. the aggregate revolving commitment was increased to $1.0 billion from $750.0 million. this facility offers additional availability, lower interest rates and extends the maturity date to may 31, 2017, from january 12, 2016. in addition, we have the ability to increase the facility by up to an additional $500.0 million. keybank led the refinancing with certain banks that participated in the credit agreement retaining or increasing their participation. at october 31, 2014, we had $720.3 million available under the revolving credit agreement. 61 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries october 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 short-term debt $ 101.5 $ 43.0 long-term debt 1,280.8 301.7 total $ 1,382.3 $ 344.7 at october 31, 2014 , the scheduled maturities of our fixed and variable rate long-term debt obligations, their weighted average interest rates and their estimated fair values were as follows: expected maturity date fiscal year ($ in millions) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total fair value long-term debt: fixed interest rate $ $ 0.4 $ 0.3 $ 0.3 $ $ 0.3 $ 1.3 $ 1.3 average interest rate 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % variable interest rate $ $ $ 979.5 $ 300.0 $ $ $ 1,279.5 $1,279.5 average interest rate 1.0 % 1.0 % 1.0 % 1.0 % as the table incorporates only those exposures that existed as of october 31, 2014 , it does not consider those exposures or positions which could arise after that date. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on interest rates, the exposures that arise during the period and our hedging strategies at that time. as of october 31, 2014 , we had one interest rate swap outstanding that is designed to fix the variable borrowing costs related to $40.0 million of the outstanding balance on our credit agreements. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1% or 100 basis points, annual interest expense would increase or decrease by about $12.8 million. for further information about our debt, see item 1a. risk factors and note 1 and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. 62 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiariesrisk factors 17 risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive healthcare industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens business, coopervision faces intense competition from competitors' products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our major competitors in the contact lens business, johnson &amp; johnson vision care, inc., ciba vision (owned by novartis ag) and bausch &amp; lomb, inc. (owned by valeant pharmaceuticals international, inc.), have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and/or larger manufacturing volumes than coopervision. they offer competitive products and differentiated materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. the market for contact lenses is intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to introduce new products successfully, on a timely basis in the americas, emea and asia pacific, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, coopervision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, for example with increased product entries from asia pacific contact lens manufacturers, or that our competitors' newer contact lens products will not successfully erode coopervision's contact lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the women's healthcare market, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians and hospitals. coopersurgical competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche areas, some of which have substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. acquisitions that we have made and may make in the future involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at coopersurgical and more recently at coopervision, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future 17 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. coopersurgical acquired reprogenetics in fiscal 2015, coopervision completed the acquisition of sauflon pharmaceuticals limited in fiscal 2014, and coopersurgical completed the acquisition of origio a/s in fiscal 2012. these acquisitions added significant operations to coopervision and coopersurgical, respectively, and greatly expanded their international businesses. the acquisitions have, correspondingly, added risks we could face with respect to acquisitions and include: failure to successfully obtain the anticipated revenues, margins and earnings benefits; difficulties in, and expenses related to, the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures; increased leverage and the risk of lack of access to available financing, including financing for the acquisition or refinancing of debt owed by us on a timely basis and on reasonable terms; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities, contingent liabilities or indemnification obligations of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations or terminate our employees; a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations and the risk that we are required to record significant adjustments to the preliminary fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed within the measurement period. product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence if we are unable to develop new products or gain regulatory approvals or if our competitors introduce new products. product innovations are important in the contact lens market in which coopervision competes and in the areas of the healthcare industry in which coopersurgical competes. coopersurgical has not allocated substantial resources to new product development, but rather it has historically purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. coopersurgical has recently invested in expanding the internal research and development function with the goal of organizational growth and to complement our acquisitions strategy. coopervision invests in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. research and development time commitments, higher feasibility risk with longer term projects, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies, such as contact lenses with anti-microbial or anti-allergenic features, or smart contact lenses which incorporate electronics, that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. competitors may also introduce new uses for contact lenses, such as for drug delivery or the control of myopia. failure to 18 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them, assuming they receive necessary regulatory approvals, will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. the development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: acceptance of our products by eye care and women's healthcare practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory and legislative requirements; adequate coverage and reimbursement by third party payors; the earlier release of competitive products, such as new silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care and women's healthcare industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, may limit demand for our products. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. if these new advances provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations are conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america and europe. over half of our net sales for the fiscal years ended october 31, 2015 and 2014, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; we may find it difficult to grow in emerging markets such as china, india, russia, brazil and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped distribution channels, regulatory restrictions and changes, and business knowledge of these new markets; 19 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of united states and foreign compliance and regulatory requirements such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the dodd-frank act, the u.k. bribery act and international data security and privacy laws; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce and other nations import-export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities, including but not limited to increased enforcement of potentially conflicting and ambiguous anti-bribery laws; and we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business. over the last few years in the united states and globally, market and economic conditions have been challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth. foreign countries, in particular the euro zone, have experienced recessionary pressures and face continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions and geopolitical issues. concerns about the euro zone's sovereign debt in recent years have caused uncertainty and disruption in the financial markets globally. while the global financial markets have showed general signs of improvement, uncertainty remains. as a result, we may have lower than historical performance for market growth in fiscal 2016. any negative impact on economic conditions and international markets, continued volatility or deterioration in the debt and equity capital markets, inflation, deflation or other adverse economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. it may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries we face risks associated with disruption of manufacturing and distribution operations and failure to develop new manufacturing processes that could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing or distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, integration difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), enforcement action by the fda or other regulatory body if we are found to be in non-compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. while we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete. coopervision manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent the majority of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom, puerto rico and hungary. coopersurgical manufactures the majority of its products in trumbull, connecticut, stafford, texas, malov, denmark, and pasadena, california. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we generally have not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. coopervision distributes products out of west henrietta, new york, hampshire, united kingdom, liege, belgium and various smaller international distribution facilities. coopersurgical's products are primarily distributed out of its facilities in trumbull, connecticut, and malov, denmark. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, our products could be subject to recall, and sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda's cgmp for medical devices, known as the qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to comply with qsr requirements and other applicable regulatory requirements or to respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, warning letters, significant fines, injunctions, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. 21 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries we rely on independent suppliers for raw materials and we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice. we rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals and packaging materials. raw materials used in our operations are generally available from more than one source. however, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. for example, some of the primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, including myday, biofinity, avaira and clariti, are supplied by a sole supplier. we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products if our suppliers, particularly those which are the sole source of any necessary material, fail to supply sufficient material on a timely basis or at all for any reason and/or we need to switch to an alternative supplier. a disruption in the supply of raw materials could disrupt production of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete in this important segment of the contact lens market. if we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also may seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. we also cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. both coopervision and coopersurgical also rely on proprietary technology which is unpatented. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will 22 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries be our exclusive property. however, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. we rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. to maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. we also might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. the laws of foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future may not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products or processes could be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others. our competitors in both the united states and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. in the contact lens industry, coopervision and its competitors all hold patents covering contact lens designs, business methods, processes and materials. claims that our products, business methods or processes infringe upon the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales of products incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industries. for example, coopervision has faced significant patent litigation over its silicone hydrogel contact lens products. third parties have made, and may make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology. any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or reengineer our products, if feasible; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 23 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims or legal claims relating to our service offerings, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. additionally, we face the inherent risk of exposure to legal claims, including negligence, relating to our provision of certain service offerings, including our genetic testing services and their accuracy. consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product or service that is the subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, legal claims relating to our service offerings, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing products, in the future. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of united states federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; 24 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facilities under certain circumstances, or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain our desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we may use interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to manage our risks effectively, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations and our foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. to the extent we are unable to materially offset non-nonfunctional currency flows, exchange rate fluctuations could have a positive or negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings and can make it more difficult for our shareholders to understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-over-period comparative basis. although from time to time we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our net exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our non-functional currency obligations or balances, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where the company has higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where it has lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. we are also subject to the examination of our income tax returns by other tax authorities and the outcome of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we have overseas manufacturing, administrative and sales offices and generate substantial revenues and profits in foreign jurisdictions. recently, a number of countries, including the united states, have proposed changes to their 25 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries tax laws, some of which affect taxation of earnings recognized in foreign jurisdictions. such changes in tax laws or their interpretation, if adopted, could adversely affect our effective tax rates and our results. volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan for employees in the united states. this defined benefit pension plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, discount rates and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plan and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plan. a significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. we manage our businesses utilizing complex computer systems that are regularly maintained and upgraded; an interruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to expend excessive costs. we utilize complex computer systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units and we have a continuous improvement strategy in place to keep our systems and overarching technology stable and in line with business needs and growth. regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are typical and expected. we employ controlled change management methodologies to plan, test and execute all such system upgrades and improvements, and we believe that we assign adequate staffing and other resources to projects to ensure successful implementation. however, we cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. we cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems. we are just beginning a six year or more process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning (erp) system at coopervision. implementing a new erp system is not only costly but complex and difficult. implementing a new erp system can negatively affect not only financial accounting and reporting processes but also external commercial activities such as order receipt and product delivery. we cannot assure you that we will successfully implement our new erp system or that we will avoid these and other negative impacts from our implementation efforts. we attempt to protect our computer and communications systems but may experience interruptions and breaches including computer viruses, malicious software, cyberattacks and "hacking, that could impair our ability to conduct business and communicate internally and with our customers, or result in the theft of trade secrets or other misappropriation of assets, or otherwise compromise privacy of our sensitive information, or that of our customers or other business partners. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing, engineering and scientific personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. 26 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, and our rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations and (ii) the authority of our board to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock with such terms as our board may determine. we also have the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have similar effects. our board of directors extended our preferred stock purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, pursuant to an amended rights agreement dated as of october 29, 2007, that expires on october 29, 2017. the rights agreement is intended to prevent abusive hostile takeover attempts by requiring a potential acquirer to negotiate the terms of an acquisition with our board of directors. however, it could have the effect of deterring or preventing an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of our stockholders would be in favor of such acquisition, and could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to gain control of the company or to change existing management. risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products and services our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device's design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling (including, for example, unique device identifier regulations), storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion, advertising and distribution, as well as product import and export. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, fines, warning letters, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. our medical devices require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining, renewing and maintaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such clearances and approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, and significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements may occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda and authorities in foreign jurisdictions may change their policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products or could impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. for example, the fda recently has been reviewing the premarket clearance process in response to internal and external concerns regarding the 510(k) premarket clearance program. in january 2011, the fda announced a plan of action that included twenty-five action items designed to make the process more rigorous and transparent. since then the fda has implemented some changes intended to improve its premarket programs. some of the changes and proposals under consideration could impose additional regulatory requirements on us that could delay our ability to obtain new 510(k) clearances for our products, increase the cost of compliance, or restrict our ability to maintain our current clearances. 27 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer's decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for a modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, the fda may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted, and failure to comply with fda regulations prohibiting a manufacturer from promoting a device for an unapproved, or off-label use could result in enforcement action by the fda, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil or criminal penalties. increased regulatory scrutiny and negative opinion of genetic testing may adversely affect our business through increased costs and risks associated with gaining marketing approvals and potential decreased demand for our genetic testing services. with our acquisition of reprogenetics in august 2015, we now offer certain genetic testing services to help identify the likelihood of pregnancy as well as identify possible disorders or diseases of a child prior to birth. legislative proposals addressing oversight of genetic testing have been introduced in the united states, and we expect that new legislative proposals will be introduced from time to time both in the united states and in foreign countries in the future. we cannot provide any assurance that fda regulation or regulation by foreign regulatory authorities, including pre-market review, will not be required for our genetic tests in the future or that other increased regulatory burdens will not be imposed on our genetic tests or any new genetic tests we may develop. if pre-market review is required, our genetic test business will be negatively impacted until such review is completed and approval or clearance is obtained, and the fda or other foreign regulatory authorities may require that we stop selling our genetic tests pending pre-market approval or clearance. in addition to these regulatory burdens, our ability to sell our genetic tests may be negatively impacted by public perception and social or cultural norms. the information obtained from our genetic tests could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying ethical, legal, and social concerns regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information which in turn may result in increased regulation and/or decreased demand. development and marketing of our products are subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, the reporting of certain payments to health care practitioners in certain markets (for example, the french sunshine act of 2013), duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. in the european economic area, a medical device can only be placed on the market if it is in conformity with the essential requirements set out in the european directives and implementing regulations that govern 28 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries medical devices. these directives prescribe quality programs and standards which must be maintained in order to achieve required iso certification and to approve the use of ce marking. in order to maintain iso certification and ce marking quality benchmarks, firms' quality systems and procedures are subjected to rigorous periodic inspections and reassessment audits. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. however, our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda's qsr regulations, which require manufacturers to follow, among other things, design, testing, production, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. medical device manufacturers, such as coopervision and coopersurgical, may under their own initiative recall a product if a reasonable possibility of serious injury or any material deficiency in a device is found or withdraw a product to improve device performance or for other reasons. the fda requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to the fda within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. recalls of any of our products may divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a recall could harm our reputation with customers and consumers which could reduce the sales of our products. in addition, the fda or other foreign governmental agencies may implement enforcement actions in connection with a recall which could impair our product offerings and be harmful to our business and financial results. changes in legislation and government regulation of the healthcare industry as well as third-party payors' efforts to control the costs of healthcare could materially adversely affect our business. in recent years, an increasing number of healthcare reform proposals have been formulated by the legislative and executive branches of the united states federal and state governments. in march 2010, the president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (affordable care act). the affordable care act makes extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the united states. among the provisions of the affordable care act, of greatest importance to the medical device industry are the following: a 2.3 percent excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the united states, with limited exceptions, which exceptions include all contact lenses; establishment of the patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; reporting and disclosure requirements on medical device manufacturers for certain payments or other transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, and any ownership 29 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries and investment interests held by physicians or their immediate family members, and any payments or other transfers of value to such owners. manufacturers are required to submit reports to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms) by the 90 th day of each calendar year; payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models; creation of the independent payment advisory board which has authority to recommend certain changes to reduce medicare spending and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if congress doesn't act on the recommendations; and establishment of a center for medicare innovation at cms to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower medicare and medicaid spending. these measures could result in decreased net revenues or increased expenses from our medical device products and decrease potential returns from our development efforts. at this time, the full effect that the affordable care act would have on our business remains unclear. for example, the affordable care act imposes a new excise tax of 2.3 percent of the price for which certain medical devices are sold, which went into effect on january 1, 2013. coopervision is not affected by this tax because contact lenses are excluded from the tax. however, united states sales of a significant portion of coopersurgical's products are subject to this tax. other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the affordable care act was enacted. on august 2, 2011, the president signed into law the budget control act of 2011, which, among other things, created the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reductions to several government programs. these reductions include aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013 and, due to the bipartisan budget act of 2015, will remain in effect until 2025 unless additional action is taken by congress. on january 2, 2013, president obama signed into law the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. in addition, on april 16, 2015, president obama signed into law the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015, or macra, which among other things, repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. we expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products, or result in additional pricing pressures. also, any adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. in addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the united states or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. these cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. although cost controls or other 30 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the costs of complying with the requirements of federal and state laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. other federal legislation affects the manner in which we use and disclose health information. the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards for the electronic exchange of health information that may require significant and costly changes to current practices. the united states department of health and human services (hhs) has released several rules mandating the use of specified standards with respect to certain healthcare transactions and health information. the electronic transactions rule requires the use of uniform standards for common healthcare transactions, including healthcare claims information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, plan premium payments and coordination of benefits. the privacy rule imposes standards governing the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. the security rule released by hhs establishes minimum standards for the security of electronic health information, and requires the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards. additionally, the health information technology for economic and clinical health (hitech) act of 2009 was signed into law as part of the america's recovery and reinvestment act in february 2009. the final omnibus privacy, security, breach notification and enforcement rules (omnibus final rule), implementing hipaa and hitech, became effective in september 2013. previously, hipaa directly regulated only certain covered entities, such as health care providers and health plans. under the hitech act and the omnibus final rule, certain of hipaa's privacy and security standards are now also directly applicable to covered entities' business associates. as a result, business associates are now subject to civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with applicable privacy and security rule requirements. moreover, the hitech act and the omnibus final rule set forth new notification requirements and standards for health data security breaches, increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce hipaa and seek attorney's fees and costs associated with pursuing federal actions. while there is no private right of action under hipaa that would allow individuals to sue in civil court for violations, hipaa's standards have been used as the basis for the duty of care in state civil suits, such as those for negligence or recklessness in misusing individuals' health information. further, varying state laws governing the use and disclosure of pii may be more restrictive than hipaa, which means that entities subject to them must comply with the more restrictive state law in addition to complying with hipaa. in some cases, a breach may be required to be reported under state law and affected individuals notified, even if the breach is not reportable or subject to breach notification requirements under hipaa. state laws may impose separate fines and penalties upon violators, and some, unlike hipaa, may afford a private right of action to state residents who believe their information has been misused. with the possible exception of one our subsidiaries, eye care prime llc, which offers value-added software solutions for eye care professionals, which we believe has implemented adequate security measures, we do not believe that we are a covered entity or a business associate under hipaa. however, many of our customers may be covered entities or business associates subject to hipaa. some customers as an expectation of transacting business with us may require us to enter into business associate agreements, which would obligate us to safeguard and restrict the manner in which we use certain protected health information (as defined by hipaa) that we obtain in the course of our commercial relationship with them, triggering potential liab 31 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries ility on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. alternatively, some customers may limit the scope of our commercial relationship with them with regard to our access to certain protected health information. if the government determines that we are a covered entity or a business associate, we could be faced with additional costs related to hipaa compliance and subject to governmental enforcement for failure to comply with hipaa, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and reputation. laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws and false claims laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. indeed, changes in state laws and model codes of ethics have required us to alter certain of our compliance efforts. for example, in april of 2009, massachusetts issued regulations governing the conduct of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with respect to healthcare practitioners. this regulation became effective on july 1, 2009 and sets forth what medical device manufacturers may and may not permissibly do with respect to providing meals, sponsoring continuing medical education and otherwise providing payments or items of economic benefit to healthcare practitioners located within the state. additionally, the regulation requires medical device manufacturers to have in place robust fraud and abuse compliance programs. other states (e.g., california, vermont and nevada) have adopted similar laws. these laws and regulations act to limit our marketing practices, require the dedication of resources to ensure compliance, and expose us to additional liabilities. in addition, the recent affordable care act, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and certain criminal healthcare fraud statutes so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. the affordable care act also provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of these statutes constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil false claims act or the civil monetary penalties statute. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, changes in these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to further change our business practices or subject our existing business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. we are exposed to market risks that relate principally to changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. to the extent reasonable and practical, we may decide to reduce the risk of changing interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations on the underlying exposure by entering into interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, respectively. we do not emphasize such transactions to the same degree as some other companies with international operations. we do not enter into derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. we operate multiple foreign subsidiaries that manufacture and market our products worldwide. as a result, our earnings, cash flow and financial position are exposed to foreign currency risk from foreign currency denominated receivables and payables, sales transactions, capital expenditures and net investment in certain foreign operations. we are exposed to risks caused by changes in foreign exchange, primarily to the british pound sterling, euro, japanese yen, danish krone, swedish krona, australian dollar and canadian dollar. our policy is to minimize, to the extent reasonable and practical, transaction, remeasurement and specified economic exposures with derivatives instruments. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our nonfunctional currency exposure, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. a hypothetical 5% increase or decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the united states dollar would not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors and note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. we are also exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates, as the interest rate on our senior unsecured syndicated credit facilities, including the revolving credit agreement and term loans, may vary with the london interbank offered rate (libor). we may decrease this interest rate risk by hedging a portion of variable rate debt effectively converting it to fixed rate debt. on march 24, 2015, we entered into two uncommitted line of credit agreements that have termination dates of march 24, 2016, and provide revolving loan amounts of up to $100.0 million each with maturity dates of up to ninety days from the loan origination date. at october 31, 2015, $200.0 million was outstanding under these facilities. on august 4, 2014, we entered into a three-year, $700.0 million, senior unsecured term loan agreement that will mature on august 4, 2017. there is no amortization of the principal, and we may prepay the loan balances from time to time, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. at october 31, 2015, $700.0 million remained outstanding on this term loan. on september 12, 2013, we entered into a five-year, $300.0 million, senior unsecured term loan agreement that will mature on september 12, 2018, and will be subject to amortization of principal of 5% per year payable quarterly beginning october 31, 2016, with the balance payable at maturity. at october 31, 2015, $300.0 million remained outstanding on this term loan. 63 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries on may 31, 2012, we entered into an amendment to our credit agreement, originally entered into on january 12, 2011. the aggregate revolving commitment is $1.0 billion with a maturity date of may 31, 2017, and we have the ability to increase the facility by up to an additional $500.0 million. at october 31, 2015, we had $890.8 million available under the revolving credit agreement. october 31, (in millions) 2015 2014 short-term debt $ 240.4 $ 101.5 current portion of long-term debt 3.8 long-term debt 1,105.8 1,280.8 total $ 1,350.0 $ 1,382.3 at october 31, 2015 , the scheduled maturities of our fixed and variable rate long-term debt obligations, their weighted average interest rates and their estimated fair values were as follows: expected maturity date fiscal year ($ in millions) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total fair value long-term debt: fixed interest rate $ $ 0.1 $ 0.1 $ $ $ 0.3 $ 0.5 $ 0.5 average interest rate 2.9 % 3.4 % 4.3 % 6.0 % variable interest rate $ 3.8 $ 824.0 $ 281.3 $ $ $ $ 1,109.1 $1,109.1 average interest rate 1.3 % 1.3 % 1.3 % as the table incorporates only those exposures that existed as of october 31, 2015 , it does not consider those exposures or positions which could arise after that date. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on interest rates, the exposures that arise during the period and our hedging strategies at that time. as of october 31, 2015 , we had no interest rate swap outstanding. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1% or 100 basis points, annual interest expense would increase or decrease by about $11.1 million. for further information about our debt, see item 1a. risk factors and note 1 and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. 64 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiariesrisk factors 18 risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive health care industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens business, coopervision faces intense competition from competitors' products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our major competitors in the contact lens business, johnson &amp; johnson vision care, inc., alcon (owned by novartis ag) and bausch &amp; lomb, inc. (owned by valeant pharmaceuticals international, inc.), have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and/or larger manufacturing volumes than coopervision. they offer competitive products and differentiated materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. the market for contact lenses is intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to introduce new products successfully, on a timely basis in the americas, emea and asia pacific, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, coopervision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, for example with increased product entries from asia pacific contact lens manufacturers, or that our competitors' newer contact lens products will not successfully erode coopervision's contact lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the women's health care market, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians and hospitals. coopersurgical competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche areas, some of which have substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. acquisitions that we have made and may make in the future involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at coopersurgical and more recently at coopervision, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future 18 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. coopervision completed the acquisition of soflex in fiscal 2016 and sauflon pharmaceuticals limited in fiscal 2014. coopersurgical acquired wallace in november 2016; reprogenetics uk, recombine, k-systems, genesis genetics, the pipette company, and research instruments in fiscal 2016; and reprogenetics us in fiscal 2015. these acquisitions added operations to coopervision and coopersurgical, respectively, and expanded their international businesses. the acquisitions have, correspondingly, added risks we could face with respect to acquisitions and include: failure to successfully obtain the anticipated revenues, margins and earnings benefits; difficulties in, and expenses related to, the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures, including but not limited to third party compliance and due diligence; increased leverage and the risk of lack of access to available financing, including financing for the acquisition or refinancing of debt owed by us on a timely basis and on reasonable terms; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities, contingent liabilities or indemnification obligations of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations or terminate our employees; a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations and the risk that we are required to record significant adjustments to the preliminary fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed within the measurement period. product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence if we are unable to develop new products or gain regulatory approvals or if our competitors introduce new products. product innovations are important in the contact lens market in which coopervision competes and in the areas of the health care industry in which coopersurgical competes. coopersurgical has not allocated substantial resources to new product development, but rather it has historically purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. coopersurgical has recently invested in expanding the internal research and development function with the goal of organizational growth and to complement our acquisitions strategy. coopervision invests in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. research and development time commitments, higher feasibility risk with longer term projects, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies, such as contact lenses with anti-microbial or anti-allergenic features, or smart contact lenses which 19 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries incorporate electronics, that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. competitors may also introduce new uses for contact lenses, such as for drug delivery or the control of myopia. failure to develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them, assuming they receive necessary regulatory approvals, will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. the development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: acceptance of our products by eye care and health care practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory and legislative requirements; adequate coverage and reimbursement by third party payors; the earlier release of competitive products, such as new silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care, family and women's health care industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, may limit demand for our products. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. if these new advances provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations are conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america, latin america and europe. over half of our net sales for the fiscal years ended october 31, 2016 and 2015, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; 20 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries we may find it difficult to grow in emerging markets such as china, india, russia, brazil and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped and/or unfamiliar distribution channels, regulatory restrictions and changes, and business knowledge of these new markets; tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of united states and foreign legal, compliance and regulatory requirements such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the dodd-frank act, the u.k. bribery act and international data security and privacy laws; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce and other nations import-export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities, including but not limited to increased enforcement of potentially conflicting and ambiguous anti-bribery laws; we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; and we may be subject to unforseen economic or political events in certain countries that may have an impact on our customers' ability or preferences to buy our products. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business. over the last few years in the united states and globally, market and economic conditions have been challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth. foreign countries, in particular the euro zone, have experienced recessionary pressures and face continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions and geopolitical issues. concerns about the euro zone's sovereign debt in recent years have caused uncertainty and disruption in the financial markets globally. while the global financial markets have showed general signs of improvement, uncertainty remains. as a result, we may have lower than historical performance for market growth in fiscal 2017. any negative impact on economic conditions and international markets, continued volatility or deterioration in the debt and equity capital markets, inflation, deflation or other adverse economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. it may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 21 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries the results of the united kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the european union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. we are a multinational company headquartered in the united states with worldwide operations, including significant business operations in europe, including in the united kingdom. in june 2016, a majority of voters in the united kingdom elected to withdraw from the european union in a national referendum. the referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years after the government of the united kingdom formally initiates a withdrawal process. nevertheless, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union. this development has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets. given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what implications the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union would have and how such withdrawal could affect or could have a material adverse effect on, our business, financial condition and operating results. we face risks associated with disruption of our manufacturing and distribution operations including possible failure to develop necessary manufacturing processes, or idle or excess capacity could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing or distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, integration difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), enforcement action by the fda or other regulatory body if we are found to be in non-compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. while we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete. conversely, excess or idle capacity, which could result from acquisitions, inaccurate sales forecasting or unexpected manufacturing efficiencies, could significantly impact our profitability and near term financial condition. coopervision manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent the majority of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom, puerto rico, hungary, costa rica and new york. coopersurgical manufactures the majority of its products in connecticut, texas, and denmark. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we generally have not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. coopervision distributes products out of new york, the united kingdom, belgium and various smaller international distribution facilities. coopersurgical's products are primarily distributed out of its facilities in connecticut, and denmark. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result 22 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, our products could be subject to recall, and sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda's cgmp for medical devices, known as the qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to comply with qsr requirements and other applicable regulatory requirements or to respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, warning letters, significant fines, injunctions, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. we rely on independent suppliers for raw materials and we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice. we rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting largely of various chemicals and packaging materials. raw materials used in our operations are generally available from more than one source. however, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. for example, some of the primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, including myday, biofinity, avaira and clariti, are supplied by a sole supplier. we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products if our suppliers, particularly those which are the sole source of any necessary material, fail to supply sufficient material on a timely basis or at all for any reason and/or we need to switch to an alternative supplier. a disruption in the supply of raw materials could disrupt production of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete in this important segment of the contact lens market. if we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also may seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; 23 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. we also cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. both coopervision and coopersurgical also rely on proprietary technology which is unpatented. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. we rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. to maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. we also might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. the laws of foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future may not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products or processes could be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others. our competitors in both the united states and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. in the contact lens industry, coopervision and its competitors all hold patents covering contact lens designs, business methods, processes and materials. 24 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries claims that our products, business methods or processes infringe upon the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales of products incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industries. for example, coopervision has faced significant patent litigation over its silicone hydrogel contact lens products. third parties have made, and may make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology. any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or re-engineer our products, if feasible; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims or legal claims relating to our service offerings, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. additionally, we face the inherent risk of exposure to legal claims, including negligence, relating to our provision of certain service offerings, including our genetic testing services and their accuracy. consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product or service that is the subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, legal claims relating to our service offerings, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing products, in the future. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of united states federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have 25 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facilities under certain circumstances, or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain a desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we may use interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to manage our risks effectively and, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations and our foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. to the extent we are unable to materially offset non-nonfunctional currency flows, exchange rate fluctuations could have a positive or negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. 26 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings and can make it more difficult for our shareholders to understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-over-period comparative basis. although from time to time we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our net exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our non-functional currency obligations or balances, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where the company has higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where it has lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. we are also subject to the examination of our income tax returns by other tax authorities and the outcome of these examinations could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we have overseas manufacturing, administrative and sales offices and generate substantial revenues and profits in foreign jurisdictions. the international tax environment continues to change as a result of both coordinated actions by governments and unilateral measures designed by individual countries, both intended to tackle concerns over base erosion and profit shifting (beps) and perceived international tax avoidance techniques. the recommendations of the beps project led by the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) are involved in much of the coordinated activity, although the timing and methods of implementation vary. additionally, comprehensive us tax reform has been stated to be a priority for the us congress. such changes in tax laws or their interpretation, if adopted, could adversely affect our effective tax rates and our results. volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan for employees in the united states. this defined benefit pension plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, discount rates and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plan and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plan. a significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. we manage our businesses utilizing complex integrated software and hardware information technology operating systems that are regularly maintained and upgraded; an interruption or disruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to expend excessive costs. we utilize complex integrated software and hardware operating systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units and we have a continuous improvement strategy in place to keep our systems and overarching technology stable and in line with business needs and growth. regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are typical and expected. we employ controlled change management methodologies to plan, test and execute all such 27 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries system upgrades and improvements, and we believe that we assign adequate staffing and other resources to projects to ensure successful implementation. however, we cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. we cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems. we are in the midst of a multiyear process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning (erp) system at coopervision. implementing a new erp system is not only costly but complex and difficult. implementing a new erp system can negatively affect not only financial accounting and reporting processes but also external commercial activities such as order receipt and product delivery. there can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our new erp system or that we will avoid these and other negative impacts from our implementation efforts. we attempt to protect our computer and communications systems but may experience interruptions and breaches including computer viruses, malicious software, cyberattacks and "hacking, that could impair our ability to conduct business and communicate internally and with our customers, or result in the theft of trade secrets or other misappropriation of assets, or otherwise compromise privacy of our sensitive information, or that of our customers or other business partners. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing, engineering and scientific personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, and our rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations and (ii) the authority of our board to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock with such terms as our board may determine. we also have the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have similar effects. our board of directors extended our preferred stock purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, pursuant to an amended rights agreement dated as of october 29, 2007, that expires on october 29, 2017. the rights agreement is intended to prevent abusive hostile takeover attempts by requiring a potential acquirer to negotiate the terms of an acquisition with our board of directors. however, it could have the effect of deterring or preventing an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of our stockholders would be in favor of such acquisition, and could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to gain control of the company or to change existing management. 28 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products and services our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device's design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling (including, for example, unique device identifier regulations), storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion, advertising and distribution, as well as product import and export. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, fines, warning letters, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. our medical devices require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining, renewing and maintaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such clearances and approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, and significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements may occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda and authorities in foreign jurisdictions may change their policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products or could impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. for example, the fda recently has been reviewing the premarket clearance process in response to internal and external concerns regarding the 510(k) premarket clearance program. in january 2011, the fda announced a plan of action that included twenty-five action items designed to make the process more rigorous and transparent. since then the fda has implemented some changes intended to improve its premarket programs. some of the changes and proposals under consideration could impose additional regulatory requirements on us that could delay our ability to obtain new 510(k) clearances for our products, increase the cost of compliance, or restrict our ability to maintain our current clearances. modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer's decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for a modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, the fda may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted, and failure to comply with fda regulations prohibiting a manufacturer from promoting a device for an unapproved, or off-label use could result in enforcement action by the fda, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil or criminal penalties. 29 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries increased regulatory scrutiny of genetic testing may adversely affect our business through increased costs and risks associated with gaining marketing approvals and potential decreased demand for our genetic testing services. with our acquisition of reprogenetics in august 2015, genesis genetics in march 2016, recombine in may 2016 and reprogenetics uk in may 2016, we now offer certain genetic testing services to help identify the likelihood of pregnancy as well as identify possible disorders or diseases of a child prior to birth. regulatory and legislative proposals addressing oversight of genetic testing have been introduced in the united states, and we expect that new proposals will be introduced from time to time both in the united states and in foreign countries in the future. although the fda has statutory authority to assure that medical devices, including ivds, are safe and effective for their intended uses, the fda has historically exercised its enforcement discretion and not enforced applicable provisions of the fdca and regulations with respect to ldts. we believe our tests fall within the definition of an ldt. as a result, we believe our tests are not currently subject to the fda's enforcement of its medical device regulations and the applicable fdca provisions. however, our tests may in the future become subject to more onerous regulation by the fda. legislative proposals addressing the fda's oversight of ldts have been introduced by congress in the past and new legislative proposals may be introduced from time to time in the future. the likelihood that congress will pass such legislation and the extent to which such legislation may affect the fda's ability to enforce its medical device regulations with respect to certain ldts is difficult to predict at this time. if the fda ultimately begins to enforce its medical device requirements with respect to ldts, our genetic tests may be subject to additional regulatory requirements imposed by the fda, the nature and extent of which would depend upon applicable final guidance or regulation by the fda or instruction by congress. if the fda imposes significant changes to the regulation of ldts it could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. any new fda enforcement policies affecting ldts or new legislation, regulations or guidance may result in increased regulatory burdens on our ability to continue marketing our products and to develop and introduce new products in the future, which could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state, local and foreign laboratory licensing requirements, we could lose the ability to perform our tests or experience disruptions to our business. we are subject to the clinical laboratory improvement amendments of 1988 (clia), a federal law regulating clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. our clinical laboratory must be certified under clia in order for us to perform testing on human specimens. in addition, our proprietary tests must also be recognized as part of our accredited programs under clia so that we can offer them in our laboratory. clia is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the united states by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. the law also requires us to maintain a state laboratory license to conduct testing in that state. our laboratories are located in california, florida, illinois, michigan, new jersey, oregon, texas, and internationally in canada and the united kingdom, and we must maintain the requisite licenses in each jurisdiction. 30 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries development and marketing of our products are subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, the reporting of certain payments to health care practitioners in certain markets (for example, the french sunshine act of 2013), duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. in the european economic area, a medical device can only be placed on the market if it is in conformity with the essential requirements set out in the european directives and implementing regulations that govern medical devices. these directives prescribe quality programs and standards which must be maintained in order to achieve required iso certification and to approve the use of ce marking. in order to maintain iso certification and ce marking quality benchmarks, firms' quality systems and procedures are subjected to rigorous periodic inspections and reassessment audits. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. however, our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda's qsr regulations, which require manufacturers to follow, among other things, design, testing, production, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. medical device manufacturers, such as coopervision and coopersurgical, may under their own initiative recall a product if a reasonable possibility of serious injury or any material deficiency in a device is found or withdraw a product to improve device performance or for other reasons. the fda requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to the fda within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. recalls of any of our products may divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a recall could harm our reputation with customers and consumers which could reduce the sales of our products. in addition, the fda or other foreign governmental agencies may implement enforcement actions in connection with a recall which could impair our product offerings and be harmful to our business and financial results. 31 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries changes in legislation and government regulation of the health care industry as well as third-party payors' efforts to control the costs of health care could materially adversely affect our business. in recent years, an increasing number of health care reform proposals have been formulated by the legislative and executive branches of the united states federal and state governments. in march 2010, president obama signed the affordable care act (aca). the aca makes extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the united states. among the provisions of the affordable care act, of greatest importance to the medical device industry are the following: establishment of the patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; reporting and disclosure requirements on medical device manufacturers for certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and physicians family members, certain healthcare facilities, and any ownership and investment interests held by physicians and physician family members, and any payments or other transfers of value to such owners. manufacturers are required to submit reports to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms) by the 90 th day of each calendar year; a 2.3 percent excise tax, currently suspended until 2018, on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the united states, with limited exceptions, which exceptions include all contact lenses; payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models; creation of the independent payment advisory board which has authority to recommend certain changes to reduce medicare spending and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if congress doesn't act on the recommendations; and establishment of a center for medicare innovation at cms to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower medicare and medicaid spending. these measures could result in decreased net revenues or increased expenses from our medical device products and decrease potential returns from our development efforts. there have been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the aca, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to the aca in the future, particularly in the light of the pending change in administrations following the u.s. presidential election. other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the affordable care act was enacted. on august 2, 2011, the president signed into law the budget control act of 2011, which, among other things, created the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reductions to several government programs. these reductions include aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013 and, due to the bipartisan budget act of 2015, will remain in effect until 2025 unless additional action is taken by congress. on january 2, 2013, president obama signed into law the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. in addition, on april 16, 2015, president obama signed into law the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015, or macra, which among other things, repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. 32 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries we expect that additional state and federal health care reform measures will be adopted in the future, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for health care products and services, which could adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products, or result in additional pricing pressures. also, any adoption of health care reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. in addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the united states or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of health care. these cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering health care. although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may enroll as in-network providers and suppliers with certain payors. although, becoming an in-network provider or enrolling as a supplier means that we have agreed with these payors to provide certain of our tests at negotiated rates, it does not obligate any physicians to order our tests or guarantee that we will receive reimbursement for our tests from these or any other payors at adequate levels. thus, these payor relationships, or any similar relationships we may establish in the future, may not result in acceptable levels of reimbursement for our tests or meaningful increases in our physician customer base. we cannot predict whether, under what circumstances, or at what payment levels payors will cover and reimburse for our tests. if we fail to establish and maintain broad coverage and reimbursement for our tests, our ability to generate increased revenue and grow our test volume and customer base could be limited and our future prospects and our business could suffer. the costs of complying with the requirements of federal and state laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. other federal legislation affects the manner in which we use and disclose health information. the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards for the electronic exchange of health information that may require significant and costly changes to current practices. the united states department of health and human services (hhs) has released several rules mandating the use of specified standards with respect to certain health care transactions and health information. the electronic transactions rule requires the use of uniform standards for common health care transactions, including health care claims information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, plan premium payments and coordination of benefits. the privacy rule imposes standards governing the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. the security rule released by hhs establishes minimum standards for the security of electronic health information, and requires the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards. additionally, the health information technology for economic and clinical health (hitech) act of 2009 was signed into law as part of the america's recovery and reinvestment act in february 2009. the final omnibus privacy, security, breach notification and enforcement rules (omnibus final rule), implementing hipaa and hitech, became effective in september 2013. under the hitech act and the omnibus final 33 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries rule, certain of hipaa's privacy and security standards are now directly applicable to covered entities' business associates. as a result, business associates are now subject to civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with applicable privacy and security rule requirements. moreover, the hitech act and the omnibus final rule set forth new notification requirements and standards for health data security breaches, increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce hipaa and seek attorney's fees and costs associated with pursuing federal actions. while there is no private right of action under hipaa that would allow individuals to sue in civil court for violations, hipaa's standards have been used as the basis for the duty of care in state civil suits, such as those for negligence or recklessness in misusing individuals' health information. further, varying state laws governing the use and disclosure of personally indentifiable information may be more restrictive than hipaa, which means that entities subject to them must comply with the more restrictive state law in addition to complying with hipaa. in some cases, a breach may be required to be reported under state law and affected individuals notified, even if the breach is not reportable or subject to breach notification requirements under hipaa. state laws may impose separate fines and penalties upon violators, and some, unlike hipaa, may afford a private right of action to state residents who believe their information has been misused. our genetics testing subsidiaries are covered entities under hipaa. one other subsidiary, eye care prime llc, which offers value-added software solutions for eye care professionals, may be a covered entity or business associate under hipaa. similarly, many of our customers may be covered entities or business associates subject to hipaa. some customers as an expectation of transacting business with us may require us to enter into business associate agreements, which would obligate us to safeguard and restrict the manner in which we use certain hipaa protected health information that we obtain in the course of our commercial relationship with them, triggering potential liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. alternatively, some customers may limit the scope of our commercial relationship with them with regard to our access to certain protected health information. if the government determines that our other subsidiaries are a covered entity, business associate, or subcontractor of a covered entity or subcontractor, we could be faced with additional costs related to hipaa compliance and subject to governmental enforcement for failure to comply with hipaa, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and reputation. laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws and false claims laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. indeed, changes in state laws and model codes of ethics have required us to alter certain of our compliance efforts. for example, in april of 2009, massachusetts issued regulations governing the conduct of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with respect to health care practitioners. this regulation became effective on july 1, 2009 and sets forth what medical device manufacturers may and may not 34 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries permissibly do with respect to providing meals, sponsoring continuing medical education and otherwise providing payments or items of economic benefit to health care practitioners located within the state. additionally, the regulation requires medical device manufacturers to have in place robust fraud and abuse compliance programs. other states (e.g., california, vermont and nevada) have adopted similar laws. these laws and regulations act to limit our marketing practices, require the dedication of resources to ensure compliance, and expose us to additional liabilities. in addition, the aca, among other things, amended the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and certain criminal health care fraud statutes so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. the aca also provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of these statutes constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil false claims act or the civil monetary penalties statute. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, changes in these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to further change our business practices or subject our existing business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ethical, legal and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our tests. genetic testing has raised ethical, legal and social issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. government authorities could, for social or other purposes, limit or regulate the use of genetic information or genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, these concerns may lead patients to refuse to use, or physicians to be reluctant to order, genetic tests even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal and social concerns may limit market acceptance and adoption of our tests or reduce the potential markets for our tests, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. we are exposed to market risks that relate principally to changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. to the extent reasonable and practical, we may decide to reduce the risk of changing interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations on the underlying exposure by entering into interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, respectively. we do not emphasize such transactions to the same degree as some other companies with international operations. we do not enter into derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. we operate multiple foreign subsidiaries that manufacture and market our products worldwide. as a result, our earnings, cash flow and financial position are exposed to foreign currency risk from foreign currency denominated receivables and payables, sales transactions, capital expenditures and net investment in certain foreign operations. we are exposed to risks caused by changes in foreign exchange, primarily to the british pound sterling, euro, japanese yen, danish krone, swedish krona, australian dollar and canadian dollar. our policy is to minimize, to the extent reasonable and practical, transaction, remeasurement and specified economic exposures with derivatives instruments. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our nonfunctional currency exposure, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. a hypothetical 5% increase or decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the united states dollar would not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors and note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. we are also exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates, as the interest rate on our senior unsecured syndicated credit facilities, including the revolving credit agreement and term loans, may vary with the federal funds rate and london interbank offered rate (libor). we may decrease this interest rate risk by hedging a portion of variable rate debt effectively converting it to fixed rate debt. on march 1, 2016, we entered into a new syndicated revolving credit and term loan agreement (2016 credit agreement) with keybank as administrative agent. the new agreement provides for a multicurrency revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion and a term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $830.0 million. the 2016 credit agreement replaced our previous credit agreement and funds from the new term loan were used to repay the $200.0 million outstanding principal amount of the two uncommitted revolving lines of credit, entered into on march 24, 2015 and the outstanding amounts under the previous credit agreement. we also used funds from the new term loan to partially repay outstanding amounts under the term loans entered into on august 4, 2014 and september 12, 2013 and for general corporate purposes. at october 31, 2016 , we had $999.8 million available under the revolving credit facility and $830.0 million outstanding under the term loan. 67 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries on august 4, 2014, we entered into a three-year, $700.0 million, senior unsecured term loan agreement that will mature on august 4, 2017. there is no amortization of the principal, and we may prepay the loan balances from time to time, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. at october 31, 2016 , $207.0 million remained outstanding on this term loan. on september 12, 2013, we entered into a five-year, $300.0 million, senior unsecured term loan agreement that will mature on september 12, 2018, and will be subject to amortization of principal of 5% per year payable quarterly beginning october 31, 2016, with the balance payable at maturity. at october 31, 2016 , $285.0 million remained outstanding on this term loan. see note 5. debt for additional information. october 31, (in millions) 2016 2015 short-term debt $ 17.1 $ 240.4 current portion of long-term debt 209.3 3.4 long-term debt 1,107.4 1,105.4 total $ 1,333.8 $ 1,349.2 at october 31, 2016 , the scheduled maturities of our fixed and variable rate long-term debt obligations, their weighted average interest rates and their estimated fair values were as follows: expected maturity date fiscal year ($ in millions) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total fair value long-term debt: fixed interest rate $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average interest rate variable interest rate $ $ 281.2 $ $ $ 830.2 $ $ 1,111.4 $1,111.4 average interest rate 1.8 % 1.8 % as the table incorporates only those exposures that existed as of october 31, 2016 , it does not consider those exposures or positions which could arise after that date. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on interest rates, the exposures that arise during the period and our hedging strategies at that time. as of october 31, 2016 , we had no interest rate swap outstanding. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1% or 100 basis points, annual interest expense would increase or decrease by about $11.1 million. for further information about our debt, see item 1a. risk factors and note 1 and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. 68 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiariesrisk factors 20 risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive health care industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens business, coopervision faces intense competition from competitors' products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our largest competitors in the contact lens business, johnson &amp; johnson vision care, inc. and alcon (owned by novartis ag) may have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and/or larger manufacturing volumes than coopervision. they offer competitive products and differentiated materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. the market for contact lenses is intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to introduce new products successfully, on a timely basis in the americas, emea and asia pacific, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, coopervision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, for example with increased product entries from asia pacific contact lens manufacturers, or that our competitors' newer contact lens products will not successfully erode coopervision's contact lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the contact lens industry also continues to evolve with respect to the introduction of new distribution and fulfillment models and service technologies which may conflict with coopervision's strategy or interfere with its customers' relationships and loyalty. for example, more contact lenses are being fulfilled directly to the consumer by manufacturers and wholesalers via online platforms, telemedicine is gaining popularity and more vision correction prescriptions are being provided through online refractive exams rather than in office by an eye care practitioner. coopervision's failure to adapt to the threats posed by these new and emerging distribution models and internet driven services may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries in the women's health care market, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians, hospitals and ivf clinics. coopersurgical competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche areas, some of which have substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. acquisitions that we have made and may make in the future involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at coopersurgical and more recently at coopervision, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. coopervision acquired paragon vision sciences subsequent to fiscal 2017; procornea and grand vista llc in fiscal 2017; and soflex in fiscal 2016. coopersurgical acquired paragard subsequent to fiscal 2017; wallace in fiscal 2017; reprogenetics uk, recombine, k-systems, genesis genetics, the pipette company, and research instruments in fiscal 2016; and reprogenetics us in fiscal 2015. these acquisitions added operations to coopervision and coopersurgical, respectively, and expanded their international businesses. the acquisitions have, correspondingly, added risks we could face with respect to acquisitions and include: failure to successfully obtain the anticipated revenues, margins and earnings benefits; difficulties in, and expenses related to, the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures, including but not limited to third party compliance and due diligence; increased leverage and the risk of lack of access to available financing, including financing for the acquisition or refinancing of debt owed by us on a timely basis and on reasonable terms; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities, contingent liabilities or indemnification obligations of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations or terminate our employees; application of and compliance with new and unfamiliar regulatory frameworks such as pharmaceutical regulation applicable to our paragard iud; failure to successfully obtain or maintain reimbursements under the third party payor plans, including but not limited to governmental programs, due to complex reporting and payment obligations; a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations and the risk that we are required to record significant adjustments to the preliminary fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed within the measurement period. 21 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence if we are unable to develop new products or gain regulatory approvals or if our competitors introduce new products. product innovations are important in the contact lens market in which coopervision competes and in the areas of the health care industry in which coopersurgical competes. coopersurgical has not allocated substantial resources to new product development, but rather it has historically purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. coopersurgical has recently invested in expanding the internal research and development function with the goal of organizational growth and to complement our acquisitions strategy. coopervision invests in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. research and development time commitments, higher feasibility risk with longer term projects, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies, such as contact lenses with anti-microbial or anti-allergenic features, or smart contact lenses which incorporate electronics that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. competitors may also introduce new uses for contact lenses, such as for drug delivery or the control of myopia. failure to develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them, assuming they receive necessary regulatory approvals, will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. the development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: acceptance of our products by eye care and health care practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory and legislative requirements; adequate coverage and reimbursement by third party payors; the earlier release of competitive products, such as new silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care, family and women's health care, and diagnostics testing industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, and genetic testing technology may limit demand for our products and services. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. if these new advances provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses 22 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations are conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america, latin america and europe. over half of our net sales for the fiscal years ended october 31, 2017 and 2016, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan and china because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; we may find it difficult to grow in emerging markets such as china, india, russia, brazil and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped and/or unfamiliar distribution channels, regulatory restrictions and changes, and business knowledge of these new markets; tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of united states and foreign legal, compliance and regulatory requirements such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the dodd-frank act, the u.k. bribery act and international data security and privacy laws; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce and other nations' import-export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities, including but not limited to increased enforcement of potentially conflicting and ambiguous anti-bribery laws; we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; and we may be subject to unforeseen economic or political events in certain countries that may have an impact on our customers' ability or preferences to buy our products. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. 23 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business. over the last few years in the united states and globally, market and economic conditions have been challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth. foreign countries, in particular the euro zone, have experienced recessionary pressures and face continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions and geopolitical issues. concerns about the euro zone's sovereign debt in recent years have caused uncertainty and disruption in the financial markets globally. while the global financial markets have showed general signs of improvement, uncertainty remains. any negative impact on economic conditions and international markets, continued volatility or deterioration in the debt and equity capital markets, inflation, deflation or other adverse economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. it may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. global markets continued to face threats and uncertainty during fiscal 2017. uncertain economic and financial market conditions may also adversely affect the financial condition of our customers, suppliers and other business partners. if our customers' financial conditions are adversely affected, customers may reduce their purchases of our products or we may not be able to collect accounts receivable, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations or financial results. the results of the united kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the european union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. we are a multinational company headquartered in the united states with worldwide operations, with significant business operations in europe, including in the united kingdom. in june 2016, a majority of voters in the united kingdom elected to withdraw from the european union in a national referendum. the referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years from march 29, 2017, the date the government of the united kingdom formally initiated the withdrawal process. the pending withdrawal has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union. this development has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets. given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what implications the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union would have and how such withdrawal could affect or could have a material adverse effect on, our business, financial condition and operating results. we face risks associated with disruption of our manufacturing and distribution operations including possible failure to develop necessary manufacturing processes, or idle or excess capacity could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing or distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, integration difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), enforcement action by the fda or other regulatory body if we are found to be in non-compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries in addition, materials such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. while we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete. conversely, excess or idle capacity, which could result from acquisitions, inaccurate sales forecasting or unexpected manufacturing efficiencies, could significantly impact our profitability and near term financial condition. coopervision manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent the majority of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom, puerto rico, hungary, costa rica and the united states. coopersurgical manufactures the majority of its products in connecticut, texas, and denmark. in november 2017, coopersurgical purchased a manufacturing facility in costa rica to consolidate a portion of global manufacturing. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we generally have not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. coopervision distributes products out of the united states, the united kingdom, belgium and various smaller international distribution facilities. coopersurgical's products are primarily distributed out of its facilities in connecticut, and denmark. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, our products could be subject to recall, and sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda's cgmp for medical devices, known as the qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to comply with qsr requirements and other applicable regulatory requirements or to respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, warning letters, significant fines, injunctions, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. we rely on independent suppliers for raw materials and we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice. we rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting largely of various chemicals and packaging materials. raw materials used in our operations are generally available from more than one source. however, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. for example, some of the 25 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, including myday, biofinity, avaira and clariti, are supplied by a sole supplier. we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products if our suppliers, particularly those which are the sole source of any necessary material, fail to supply sufficient material on a timely basis or at all for any reason and/or we need to switch to an alternative supplier. a disruption in the supply of raw materials could disrupt production of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete in this important segment of the contact lens market. if we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also may seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. we also cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. both coopervision and coopersurgical also rely on proprietary technology which is unpatented. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. 26 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries we rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. to maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. we also might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. the laws of foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future may not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products or processes could be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others. our competitors in both the united states and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. in the contact lens industry, coopervision and its competitors all hold patents covering contact lens designs, business methods, processes and materials. claims that our products, business methods or processes infringe upon the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales of products incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industries. for example, coopervision in the past faced significant patent litigation over its silicone hydrogel contact lens products. third parties have made, and may make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology. any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or re-engineer our products, if feasible; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims or legal claims relating to our service offerings, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. 27 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. additionally, we face the inherent risk of exposure to legal claims, including negligence, relating to our provision of certain service offerings, including our genetic testing services and their accuracy. consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product or service that is the subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, legal claims relating to our service offerings, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing products, in the future. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of united states federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; result in greater interest rate risk and volatility; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facilities under certain circumstances, or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. 28 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain a desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we may use interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to manage our risks effectively and, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations and our foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen. we are also exposed to the danish krone, swedish krona, australian dollar and canadian dollar among other currencies. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. to the extent we are unable to materially offset non-nonfunctional currency flows, exchange rate fluctuations could have a positive or negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings and can make it more difficult for our shareholders to understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-over-period comparative basis. although from time to time we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our net exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our non-functional currency obligations or balances, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. we are also subject to the examination of our income tax returns by other tax authorities and the outcome of these examinations could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. the united kingdom tax authorities (u.k. tax authorities) enacted a new diverted profits tax (dpt) as of april 1, 2015 on profits of multinationals that they deemed artificially diverted from the united kingdom. the tax rate is 25%. dpt is intended to apply in two situations; (a) where a foreign company has artificially avoided having a taxable presence in the united kingdom and (b) where a group adopts a structure which lacks economic substance in order to divert profits from the united kingdom. 29 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries the u.k. tax authorities have begun an inquiry regarding the application of dpt to us for fiscal year 2015. we believe that the transactions in question were at arm's length with no intention to divert profit from the united kingdom and therefore are outside the intended reach of the dpt. on december 20, 2017, the u.k. tax authorities issued a dpt charging notice of approximately gbp 31 million with respect to the transfer out of the united kingdom of certain intellectual property rights in connection with the 2014 acquisition of sauflon pharmaceutical ltd. although the taxes were paid on the transfer, the uk tax authorities are challenging the value assigned to such property. we intend to contest the charging notice vigorously. the process for resolving such a notice can be lengthy and could involve litigation. the company is cooperating with the tax authorities to resolve this issue. the outcome of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty and may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we have overseas manufacturing, administrative and sales offices and generate substantial revenues and profits in foreign jurisdictions. the international tax environment continues to change as a result of both coordinated actions by governments and unilateral measures designed by individual countries, both intended to tackle concerns over base erosion and profit shifting (beps) and perceived international tax avoidance techniques. the recommendations of the beps project led by the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) are involved in much of the coordinated activity. although the timing and methods of implementation vary, several jurisdictions have enacted legislation that is aligned with, and in some cases exceeds the scope of, the oecd's recommendations. in the u.s., a number of proposals for broad reform of the corporate tax system are under evaluation by various legislative and administrative bodies. it is not possible to accurately determine the overall impact of such proposals on our effective tax rate or balance sheet at this time. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. president signed the tax reform legislation into law. the impact of tax reform is still being evaluated by the company and will be reflected in our fiscal first quarter of 2018. changes in corporate tax rates, the taxation of foreign earnings and the deductibility of expenses could have a material impact on the recoverability of our deferred tax assets, could result in significant one-time charges in the period in which tax reform is enacted and could result in an increase of the company's effective tax rate. volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan for employees in the united states. this defined benefit pension plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, discount rates and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plan and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plan. a significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. we manage our businesses utilizing complex integrated software and hardware information technology operating systems that are regularly maintained and upgraded; an interruption or disruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to expend excessive costs. we utilize complex integrated software and hardware operating systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units and we have a continuous 30 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries improvement strategy in place to keep our systems and overarching technology stable and in line with business needs and growth. regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are typical and expected. we employ controlled change management methodologies to plan, test and execute all such system upgrades and improvements, and we believe that we assign adequate staffing and other resources to projects to ensure successful implementation. however, we cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. we cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems. we are in the midst of a multiyear process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning (erp) system at coopervision. implementing a new erp system is not only costly but complex and difficult. implementing a new erp system can negatively affect not only financial accounting and reporting processes but also external commercial activities such as order receipt and product delivery. there can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our new erp system or that we will avoid these and other negative impacts from our implementation efforts. we attempt to protect our computer and communications systems but may experience interruptions and breaches including computer viruses, malicious software, cyberattacks and "hacking, that could impair our ability to conduct business and communicate internally and with our customers, or result in the theft of trade secrets or other misappropriation of assets, or otherwise compromise privacy of our sensitive information, or that of our customers or other business partners. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing, engineering and scientific personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. we also have the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have anti-takeover effects. our preferred stock purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, expired on october 29, 2017. risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products and services our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device's design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling (including, for example, unique device identifier regulations), storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion, advertising and distribution, as well as product import and export. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition 31 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, fines, warning letters, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. our medical devices require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining, renewing and maintaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such clearances and approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, and significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements may occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda and authorities in foreign jurisdictions may change their policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products, increase the cost of compliance, impose additional regulatory requirements on us, or otherwise impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer's decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for a modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. any failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may significantly and adversely affect our ability to commercialize and generate revenue from our product candidates. if regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is withdrawn, the value of our company and our operating results may be adversely affected. the fda's and other regulatory authorities' policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. for example, in december 2016, the 21st century cures act (cures act), was signed into law. the cures act, among other things, is intended to modernize the regulation of drugs and medical devices and spur innovation, but its ultimate implementation is unclear. if we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. we also cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative or executive action, either in the united states, such as new policies introduced by the trump administration, or abroad. increased regulatory scrutiny of genetic testing may adversely affect our business through increased costs and risks associated with gaining marketing approvals and potential decreased demand for our genetic testing services. 32 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries with our acquisition of reprogenetics us in august 2015, genesis genetics in march 2016, recombine in may 2016 and reprogenetics uk in may 2016, we now offer certain genetic testing services to help identify the likelihood of pregnancy as well as identify possible disorders or diseases of a child prior to birth. regulatory and legislative proposals addressing oversight of genetic testing have been introduced in the united states, and we expect that new proposals will be introduced from time to time both in the united states and in foreign countries in the future. although the fda has statutory authority to assure that medical devices, including ivds, are safe and effective for their intended uses, the fda has historically exercised its enforcement discretion and not enforced applicable provisions of the fdca and regulations with respect to ldts. we believe our tests fall within the definition of an ldt. as a result, we believe our tests are not currently subject to the fda's enforcement of its medical device regulations and the applicable fdca provisions. however, our tests may in the future become subject to more onerous regulation by the fda. legislative proposals addressing the fda's oversight of ldts have been introduced by congress in the past and new legislative proposals may be introduced from time to time in the future. the likelihood that congress will pass such legislation and the extent to which such legislation may affect the fda's ability to enforce its medical device regulations with respect to certain ldts is difficult to predict at this time. if the fda ultimately begins to enforce its medical device requirements with respect to ldts, our genetic tests may be subject to additional regulatory requirements imposed by the fda, the nature and extent of which would depend upon applicable final guidance or regulation by the fda or instruction by congress. if the fda imposes significant changes to the regulation of ldts it could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. any new fda enforcement policies affecting ldts or new legislation, regulations or guidance may result in increased regulatory burdens on our ability to continue marketing our products and to develop and introduce new products in the future, which could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state, local and foreign laboratory licensing requirements, we could lose the ability to perform our tests or experience disruptions to our business. we are subject to the clinical laboratory improvement amendments of 1988 (clia), a federal law regulating clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. our clinical laboratory must be certified under clia in order for us to perform testing on human specimens. in addition, our proprietary tests must also be recognized as part of our accredited programs under clia so that we can offer them in our laboratory. clia is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the united states by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. the law also requires us to maintain a state laboratory license to conduct testing in that state. our laboratories are located in the united states, and internationally in canada and the united kingdom, and we must maintain the requisite licenses in each jurisdiction. development and marketing of our products are subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, the reporting of certain payments to health care practitioners in certain markets (for example, the french sunshine act of 2013), duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. 33 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. however, our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda's qsr regulations, which require manufacturers to follow, among other things, design, testing, production, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. medical device manufacturers, such as coopervision and coopersurgical, may under their own initiative recall a product if a reasonable possibility of serious injury or any material deficiency in a device is found or withdraw a product to improve device performance or for other reasons. the fda requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to the fda within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. recalls of any of our products may divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a recall could harm our reputation with customers and consumers which could reduce the sales of our products. in addition, the fda or other foreign governmental agencies may implement enforcement actions in connection with a recall which could impair our product offerings and be harmful to our business and financial results. changes in legislation and government regulation of the health care industry both in the united states and internationally, as well as third-party payors' efforts to control the costs of health care could materially adversely affect our business. the affordable care act (aca) made extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the united states. among the provisions of the aca, of greatest importance to the medical device industry and pharmaceutical industry are the following: establishment of the patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; reporting and disclosure requirements on medical device and pharmaceutical manufacturers for certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and physicians family members, certain healthcare facilities, and any ownership and investment interests held by physicians and physician family members, and any payments or other transfers of value to such owners. manufacturers are required to submit reports to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms) by the 90 th day of each calendar year; absent new legislation, a 2.3 percent excise tax, currently suspended, will be reinstated as of january 1, 2018, on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the united states, with limited exceptions, which exceptions include all contact lenses; 34 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models; creation of the independent payment advisory board which has authority to recommend certain changes to reduce medicare spending and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if congress doesn't act on the recommendations; establishment of a center for medicare innovation at cms to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower medicare and medicaid spending; and an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the medicaid drug rebate program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for most branded and generic drugs, respectively. these measures could result in decreased net revenues or increased expenses from our medical device products and decrease potential returns from our development efforts. there have been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the aca, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to the aca in the future. additionally, recent reform proposals have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to tax and trade policies, tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the united states and other countries. major developments in tax policy or trade relations could have a material effect on our balance sheet and results of operations. other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the affordable care act was enacted. the budget control act of 2011, among other things, created the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reductions to several government programs. these reductions include aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments, will remain in effect until 2025 unless additional action is taken by congress. the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. in addition, the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015, among other things, repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. we expect that additional state and federal health care reform measures will be adopted in the future, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for health care products and services, which could adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products, or result in additional pricing pressures. also, any adoption of health care reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. in addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the united states or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of health care. these cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering health care. although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens 35 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may enroll as in-network providers and suppliers with certain payors. although, becoming an in-network provider or enrolling as a supplier means that we have agreed with these payors to provide certain of our tests at negotiated rates, it does not obligate any physicians to order our tests or guarantee that we will receive reimbursement for our tests from these or any other payors at adequate levels. thus, these payor relationships, or any similar relationships we may establish in the future, may not result in acceptable levels of reimbursement for our tests or meaningful increases in our physician customer base. we cannot predict whether, under what circumstances, or at what payment levels payors will cover and reimburse for our tests. if we fail to establish and maintain broad coverage and reimbursement for our tests, our ability to generate increased revenue and grow our test volume and customer base could be limited and our future prospects and our business could suffer. on april 5, 2017, the european parliament passed the medical devices regulation, which repeals and replaces the eu medical devices directive. unlike directives, which must be implemented into the national laws of the european economic area (eea) member states, the regulations would be directly applicable (i.e., without the need for adoption of eea member state laws implementing them) in all eea member states and are intended to eliminate current differences in the regulation of medical devices among eea member states. the medical devices regulation, among other things, is intended to establish a uniform, transparent, predictable and sustainable regulatory framework across the eea for medical devices and in vitro diagnostic devices and ensure a high level of safety and health while supporting innovation. the medical devices regulation will, however, only become applicable three years after publication while the in-vitro diagnostic medical devices regulation will only become applicable five years after publication. once applicable, the new regulations will among other things: strengthen the rules on placing devices on the market and reinforce surveillance once they are available; establish explicit provisions on manufacturers' responsibilities for the follow-up of the quality, performance and safety of devices placed on the market; improve the traceability of medical devices throughout the supply chain to the end-user or patient through a unique identification number; set up a central database to provide patients, healthcare professionals and the public with comprehensive information on products available in the eu; and strengthen rules for the assessment of certain high-risk devices, such as implants, which may have to undergo an additional check by experts before they are placed on the market. these modifications may have an impact on the way we conduct our business in the eea and an adverse impact on our overall business operations and financial results. the costs of complying with the requirements of federal and state laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 36 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries state and federal laws and regulations, including the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa) govern the collection, dissemination, use, privacy, confidentiality, security, availability and integrity of individually identifiable information, including protected health information (phi). hipaa establishes basic national privacy and security standards for protection of phi by covered entities such as our genetics testing subsidiaries and the business associates with whom such entities contract for services, including another one of our subsidiaries, eye care prime llc, which offers value-added software solutions for eye care professionals. hipaa requires both covered entities and business associates to develop and maintain policies and procedures for phi that is used or disclosed, and to adopt administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect phi. when we are acting as a business associate, our clients that are covered entities are mandated by hipaa to enter into written agreements with us - known as business associate agreements - that require us to safeguard phi in accordance with hipaa. our genetics testing subsidiaries are likewise required to enter into business associate agreements with any of their business associates. mandatory penalties for hipaa violations can be significant. a single breach incident can result in violations of multiple standards. if a person knowingly or intentionally obtains or discloses phi in violation of hipaa requirements, criminal penalties may also be imposed. we maintain safeguards that we believe are reasonable and appropriate to protect the privacy and security of phi and other personally identifiable information consistent with applicable law and our contractual obligations; however, our systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, viruses, hackers, and other potential sources of security breaches. in addition, we may not be able to prevent incidences of inappropriate use or unauthorized access to phi by our employees or contractors. any such breaches could result in exposure to liability under federal and state laws and/or under our contractual arrangements and could adversely impact our business. we are also subject to laws and regulations in countries other than united states covering data privacy and the protection of health-related and other personal information. eu member states and other jurisdictions have adopted data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. for example, the eu data protection directive, as implemented into national laws by the eu member states, imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the processing of personal data. the new eu-wide general data protection regulation (gdpr) entered into force in may 2016 and will become applicable on may 25, 2018, replacing the current data protection laws of each eu member state. the gdpr will implement more stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including, for example, expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information, increased requirements pertaining to health data and pseudonymised (i.e., key-coded) data, mandatory data breach notification requirements and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with privacy or security laws, policies, legal obligations or industry standards or any security incident that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information may result in governmental enforcement actions and investigations including by european data protection authorities, fines and penalties (for example, of up to 20,000,000 euros or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year (whichever is higher) under the gdpr and eprivacy regulation), litigation and/or adverse publicity, including by consumer advocacy groups, and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. such failures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. if the third parties we work with violate applicable laws, contractual obligations or suffer a security breach, such violations may also put us in breach of our obligations under privacy laws and regulations and/or could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business. 37 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws and false claims laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. massachusetts issued regulations governing the conduct of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with respect to health care practitioners that sets forth what medical device manufacturers may and may not permissibly do with respect to providing meals, sponsoring continuing medical education and otherwise providing payments or items of economic benefit to health care practitioners located within the state. additionally, the regulation requires medical device manufacturers to have in place robust fraud and abuse compliance programs. other states (e.g., california, vermont and nevada) have adopted similar laws. these laws and regulations act to limit our marketing practices, require the dedication of resources to ensure compliance, and expose us to additional liabilities. in addition, the aca, among other things, amended the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and certain criminal health care fraud statutes so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. the aca also provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of these statutes constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil false claims act or the civil monetary penalties statute. in addition, federal government price reporting laws, changed by the aca to, among other things, increase the minimum medicaid rebates owed by most manufacturers under the medicaid drug rebate program and offer such rebates to additional populations, that require us to calculate and report complex pricing metrics to government programs, where such reported prices may be used in the calculation of reimbursement and/or discounts on our marketed drugs. participation in these programs and compliance with the applicable requirements may subject us to potentially significant discounts on our products, increased infrastructure costs and potentially limit our ability to offer certain marketplace discounts. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, changes in these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to further change our business practices or subject our existing business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ethical, legal and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our tests. genetic testing has raised ethical, legal and social issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. government authorities could, for social or other purposes, limit or regulate the use of genetic information or genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, these concerns may lead patients to refuse to use, or physicians to be reluctant to order, genetic tests even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal and 38 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries social concerns may limit market acceptance and adoption of our tests or reduce the potential markets for our tests, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. we are exposed to market risks that relate principally to changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. to the extent reasonable and practical, we may decide to reduce the risk of changing interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations on the underlying exposure by entering into interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, respectively. we do not emphasize such transactions to the same degree as some other companies with international operations. we do not enter into derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. we operate multiple foreign subsidiaries that manufacture and market our products worldwide. as a result, our earnings, cash flow and financial position are exposed to foreign currency risk from foreign currency denominated receivables and payables, sales transactions, capital expenditures and net investment in certain foreign operations. we are exposed to risks caused by changes in foreign exchange, primarily to the british pound sterling, euro, japanese yen, danish krone, swedish krona, australian dollar and canadian dollar. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our nonfunctional currency exposure, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. at 31 october 2017, a uniform hypothetical 5% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the united states dollar would have resulted in a decrease in approximately $25.0 million in operating income for the fiscal year ended 31 october 2017. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors - " our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertaintes which could affect our operating results. and note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. we are also exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates, as the interest rate on our senior unsecured syndicated credit facilities, including the revolving credit agreement and term loans, may vary with the federal funds rate and london interbank offered rate (libor). we may decrease this interest rate risk by hedging a portion of variable rate debt effectively converting it to fixed rate debt. subsequent to the fiscal year ended october 31, 2017, on november 1, 2017, in connection with the paragard acquisition, we entered into a new five-year, $1.425 billion, senior unsecured term loan agreement by and among the company, the lenders party thereto and dnb bank, as administrative agent. the company used part of the facility to fund acquisition of paragard and used the remainder of the funds to partially repay outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit agreement. we are exposed to interest rate risk as interest rates on this term loan varies with the libor. on march 1, 2016, we entered into a syndicated revolving credit and term loan agreement (2016 credit agreement) with keybank as administrative agent. the new agreement provides for a multicurrency revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion and a term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $830.0 million. the 2016 credit agreement replaced our previous credit agreement and funds from the new term loan were used to repay our other outstanding term loans and for 67 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries general corporate purposes. at october 31, 2017 , we had $676.7 million available under the revolving credit facility and $830.0 million outstanding under the term loan. on august 4, 2014, we entered into a three-year, $700.0 million, senior unsecured term loan agreement with a maturity date of august 4, 2017. there was no amortization of the principal, and we could prepay the loan balances from time to time, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. we repaid $493.0 million of the outstanding balance in fiscal 2016 and fully repaid the remaining $207.0 million of the outstanding balance in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. on september 12, 2013, we entered into a five-year, $300.0 million, senior unsecured term loan agreement with a maturity date of september 12, 2018, subject to amortization of principal of 5% per year payable quarterly beginning october 31, 2016, with the balance payable at maturity. we repaid $15.0 million of the outstanding balance in fiscal 2016 and fully repaid the remaining $285.0 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 using the funds from the 2016 credit agreement. see note 5. debt for additional information. october 31, (in millions) 2017 2016 short-term debt $ 23.4 $ 17.1 current portion of long-term debt 209.2 long-term debt 1,153.2 1,111.4 less: unamortized debt issuance cost $ (3.9 ) $ (4.0 ) total $ 1,172.7 $ 1,333.7 at october 31, 2017 , the scheduled maturities of our fixed and variable rate long-term debt obligations, their weighted average interest rates: expected maturity date fiscal year ($ in millions) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total fair value long-term debt: variable interest rate $ $ 323.0 $ $ 830.2 $ $ $ 1,153.2 $1,153.2 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % as the table incorporates only those exposures that existed as of october 31, 2017 , it does not consider those exposures or positions which could arise after that date. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on interest rates, the exposures that arise during the period and our hedging strategies at that time. as of october 31, 2017 , we had no interest rate swap outstanding. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1% or 100 basis points, annual interest expense would increase or decrease by approximately $11.1 million based on average debt outstanding for the fiscal 2017. for further information about our debt, see item 1a. risk factors - we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. and note 1 and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. 68 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiariesrisk factors 22 risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive health care industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens business, coopervision faces intense competition from competitors' products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our largest competitors in the contact lens business, johnson &amp; johnson vision care, inc. and alcon (owned by novartis ag) may have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and/or larger manufacturing volumes than coopervision. they offer competitive products and differentiated materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. the market for contact lenses is intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to introduce new products successfully, on a timely basis in the americas, emea and asia pacific, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, coopervision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, for example with increased product entries from asia pacific contact lens manufacturers, or that our competitors' newer contact lens products will not successfully erode coopervision's contact lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the contact lens industry also continues to evolve with respect to the introduction of new distribution and fulfillment models and service technologies which may conflict with coopervision's strategy or interfere with its customers' relationships and loyalty. for example, more contact lenses are being fulfilled directly to the consumer by manufacturers and wholesalers via online platforms, telemedicine is gaining popularity and more vision correction prescriptions are being provided through online refractive exams rather than in office by an eye care practitioner. coopervision's failure to adapt to the threats posed by 22 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries these new and emerging distribution models and internet driven services may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the women's health care market, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians, hospitals, patients and ivf clinics. coopersurgical competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche areas, some of which have substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. acquisitions that we have made and may make in the future involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at coopersurgical and at coopervision, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. coopervision acquired paragon vision sciences and blueyes in fiscal 2018; procornea and grand vista llc in fiscal 2017. coopersurgical acquired paragard and lifeglobal in fiscal 2018; wallace in fiscal 2017. these acquisitions added operations to coopervision and coopersurgical, respectively, and expanded their international businesses. the acquisitions have, correspondingly, added risks we could face with respect to acquisitions and include: failure to successfully obtain the anticipated revenues, margins and earnings benefits; difficulties in, and expenses related to, the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures, including but not limited to third party compliance and due diligence; increased leverage and the risk of lack of access to available financing, including financing for the acquisition or refinancing of debt owed by us on a timely basis and on reasonable terms; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities, contingent liabilities or indemnification obligations of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations or terminate our employees; application of and compliance with new and unfamiliar regulatory frameworks such as pharmaceutical regulation applicable to our paragard iud; failure to successfully obtain or maintain reimbursements under the third party payor plans, including but not limited to governmental programs, due to complex reporting and payment obligations; a dilution of earnings per share; and 23 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries risks inherent in accounting allocations and the risk that we are required to record significant adjustments to the preliminary fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed within the measurement period. product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence if we are unable to develop new products or gain regulatory approvals or if our competitors introduce new products. product innovations are important in the contact lens market in which coopervision competes and in the areas of the health care industry in which coopersurgical competes. coopersurgical has historically purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. over the past few years, coopersurgical has invested in expanding the internal research and development function with the goal of organizational growth and to complement our acquisitions strategy. coopervision, both internally and externally with third parties, invests in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. while much of coopervision's research and development activities are performed internally, it also uses external research and development investment in collaborations and joint development with third parties. research and development time commitments, higher feasibility risk with longer term projects, greater dependence on, and reduced control over, third party deliverables, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies, such as contact lenses with anti-microbial or anti-allergenic features, or smart contact lenses which incorporate electronics that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. competitors may also introduce new uses for contact lenses, such as for drug delivery or the control of myopia. failure to develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them, assuming they receive necessary regulatory approvals, will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. the development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: acceptance of our products by eye care and health care practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory and legislative requirements; adequate coverage and reimbursement by third party payors; the earlier release of competitive products, such as new silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. 24 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care, family and women's health care, and diagnostics testing industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, and genetic testing technology may limit demand for our products and services. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. if these new advances provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations are conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america, latin america and europe. over half of our net sales for the fiscal years ended october 31, 2018 and 2017, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan and china because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; we may find it difficult to grow in emerging markets such as china, india, russia, brazil and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped and/or unfamiliar distribution channels, regulatory restrictions and changes, and business knowledge of these new markets; tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions, including the tariffs recently enacted and proposed by the u.s. government on various imports from china and by the chinese government on certain u.s. goods, the scope and duration of which remain uncertain; we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of united states and foreign legal, compliance and regulatory requirements such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the dodd-frank act, the u.k. bribery act and international data security and privacy laws; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce and other nations' import-export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; 25 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities, including but not limited to increased enforcement of potentially conflicting and ambiguous anti-bribery laws; we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; and we may be subject to unforeseen economic or political events in certain countries that may have an impact on our customers' ability or preferences to buy our products. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business. over the last few years in the united states and globally, market and economic conditions have been challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth. foreign countries, in particular the euro zone, have experienced recessionary pressures and face continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions and geopolitical issues. concerns about the euro zone's sovereign debt in recent years have caused uncertainty and disruption in the financial markets globally. while the global financial markets have showed general signs of improvement, uncertainty remains. any negative impact on economic conditions and international markets, continued volatility or deterioration in the debt and equity capital markets, inflation, deflation or other adverse economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. it may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. global markets continued to face threats and uncertainty during fiscal 2018. uncertain economic and financial market conditions may also adversely affect the financial condition of our customers, suppliers and other business partners. if our customers' financial conditions are adversely affected, customers may reduce their purchases of our products or we may not be able to collect accounts receivable, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations or financial results. coopervision and coopersurgical are encountering consolidation in their customer bases and emergence of more centralized large customer groups and retail chains. due to this trend, global and regional key account customers now represent a larger proportion or concentration of our business and any disruption to these relationships may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. the results of the united kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the european union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. we are a multinational company headquartered in the united states with worldwide operations, with significant business operations in europe, including in the united kingdom. in june 2016, a majority of voters in the united kingdom elected to withdraw from the european union in a national referendum. in march 2017, the government of the united kingdom formally gave notice of its intent to withdraw from 26 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries the european union. serving this notice began a two-year period for the united kingdom to negotiate terms for its withdrawal from the european union. at this time, it is not certain what steps, may be taken to facilitate the united kingdom's exit from the european union, which has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union. this development has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets. given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what implications the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union will have and how such withdrawal could affect, or whether it could have a material adverse effect on, our business, financial condition and operating results. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; result in greater interest rate risk and volatility; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facilities under certain circumstances, or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain a desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we may use interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to manage our risks effectively and, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. 27 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries exchange rate fluctuations and our foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen. we are also exposed to the danish krone, swedish krona, australian dollar and canadian dollar among other currencies. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. to the extent we are unable to materially offset non-nonfunctional currency flows, exchange rate fluctuations could have a positive or negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings and can make it more difficult for our shareholders to understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-over-period comparative basis. although from time to time we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our net exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our non-functional currency obligations or balances, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. we face risks associated with disruption of our manufacturing and distribution operations including possible failure to develop necessary manufacturing processes, or idle or excess capacity could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing or distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, integration difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), enforcement action by the fda or other regulatory body if we are found to be in non-compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. while we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete. conversely, excess or idle capacity, which could result from acquisitions, inaccurate sales forecasting or unexpected manufacturing efficiencies, could significantly impact our profitability and near term financial condition. coopervision manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent the majority of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom, puerto rico, hungary, costa rica and the united states. coopersurgical manufactures the majority of its products in connecticut, texas, new york, denmark, costa rica and united kingdom. in november 2017, coopersurgical purchased a manufacturing facility in costa rica to consolidate a portion of global manufacturing. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we generally have not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. 28 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries coopervision distributes products out of the united states, the united kingdom, belgium and various smaller international distribution facilities. coopersurgical's products are primarily distributed out of its facilities in connecticut, denmark and the netherlands. coopersurgical is currently shifting its primary distribution facility from denmark to venlo, netherlands. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, challenges related to system implementation, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, our products could be subject to recall, and sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda's cgmp for medical devices, known as the qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to comply with qsr requirements and other applicable regulatory requirements or to respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, warning letters, significant fines, injunctions, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. we rely on independent suppliers in our supply chain for raw materials, packaging materials and components, mechanical equipment and some finished goods; we could experience inventory shortages if any of these suppliers encounter a manufacturing or distribution disruption our businesses utilize various chemicals, packaging materials, components, parts and raw materials which are generally available from more than one source. however in certain instances we acquire components and materials from sole or primary suppliers to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens, certain medical devices and ivf products. we also source mechanical equipment and in certain instances finished goods from oem suppliers. supply of these goods, items and materials is protected by contractual agreements, availability of alternative suppliers and/or safety stocks. however, if current suppliers fail to supply sufficient goods, items or materials to us on a timely basis, or at all for any reason, we could experience inventory shortages and disruption in our supply of products. for example, among other situations, some of the primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, including myday, biofinity, avaira and clariti, are supplied by a sole supplier, and the failure of a key or sole supplier to timely supply sufficient items and materials necessary for the manufacture of our silicone hydrogel contact lenses could in turn disrupt our supply of those lenses to the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property 29 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also may seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. we also cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. both coopervision and coopersurgical also rely on proprietary technology which is unpatented. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. we rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. to maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. we also might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. the laws of foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future may not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and 30 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products or processes could be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others. our competitors in both the united states and foreign countries, some of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, as well as other third parties, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. in the contact lens industry, coopervision, its competitors and other third parties hold patents covering contact lens designs, business methods, processes and materials. claims that our products, business methods or processes infringe upon the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales of products incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industries. for example, coopervision in the past faced significant patent litigation over its silicone hydrogel contact lens products. third parties have made, and may make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology. any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or re-engineer our products, if feasible; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims or legal claims relating to our service offerings, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. additionally, we face the inherent risk of exposure to legal claims, including negligence, relating to our provision of certain service offerings, including our genetic testing services and their accuracy. consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product or service that is the 31 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, legal claims relating to our service offerings, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing products, in the future. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of united states federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. determination of the company's effective tax rate and evaluation of its tax positions is uncertain with rapidly changing enactment, interpretation and enforcement of tax regulations by taxing authorities globally. when tax matters arise, several years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. unfavorable resolution of any tax matter in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could increase the effective tax rate, which would have an adverse effect on the company's operating results. any resolution of a tax matter may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. we are also subject to the examination of our income tax returns by other tax authorities and the outcome of these examinations could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. the united kingdom enacted a new diverted profits tax (dpt) as of april 1, 2015 on profits of multinationals that they deemed artificially diverted from the united kingdom. the tax rate is 25%. dpt is intended to apply in two situations; (a) where a foreign company has artificially avoided having a taxable presence in the united kingdom and (b) where a group adopts a structure which lacks economic substance in order to divert profits from the united kingdom. the united kingdom tax authorities (u.k. tax authorities) have begun an inquiry regarding the application of dpt to us for fiscal year 2015. we believe that the transactions in question were at arm's length with no intention to divert profit from the united kingdom and therefore are outside the intended reach of the dpt. on december 20, 2017, the u.k. tax authorities issued a dpt charging notice of approximately gbp 31 million with respect to the transfer out of the united kingdom of certain intellectual property rights in 32 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries connection with the 2014 acquisition of sauflon pharmaceutical ltd. although the taxes were paid on the transfer, the u.k. tax authorities are challenging the value assigned to such property. we have contested the charging notice. the process for resolving such a notice can be lengthy and could involve litigation. the dpt legislation provides a one-year review period; however, it requires prepayment of the charging notice to be made within 30 days of its issuance. as required, the payment of gbp 31.0 million was made on january 19, 2018. the company believes final resolution of the transfer value of intellectual property with the u.k. tax authorities is imminent. the outcome of final resolution is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various jurisdictions outside of the united states. our effective tax rate could fluctuate due to changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates. our tax expense could also be impacted by changes in non-deductible expenses, changes in excess tax benefits of stock-based compensation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and our ability to utilize them, the applicability of withholding taxes and effects from acquisitions. we are subject to tax examinations in multiple jurisdictions. while we regularly evaluate new information that may change our judgment resulting in recognition, derecognition or change in measurement of a tax position taken, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. our tax provision could also be impacted by changes in accounting principles, and changes in u.s. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. for example, the 2017 u.s. tax cuts and jobs act (2017 act) significantly changed income tax laws that affect u.s. corporations. we made significant judgments and assumptions in the interpretation of this new law and in our calculations of the provisional amounts reflected in our financial statements. consistent with sec guidance, the company has made a reasonable estimate of the effects of the 2017 act and recorded provisional income tax expense of $214.6 million in the financial statements for fiscal 2018. the u.s. treasury department, the internal revenue service (irs), and other standard-setting bodies may issue guidance on how the provisions of the 2017 act will be applied or otherwise administered, and additional accounting guidance or interpretations may be issued in the future that is different from our current interpretation. as we further analyze the new law and collect relevant information to complete our computations of the related accounting impact, we may adjust the provisional amounts that could materially affect our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. in addition, other countries are considering fundamental tax law changes. any changes in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies and positions could also impact our tax liabilities. we may also be subject to additional tax liabilities and penalties due to changes in non-income based taxes resulting from changes in federal, state or international tax laws, changes in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions, results of tax examinations, settlements or judicial decisions, changes in accounting principles, changes to the business operations, including acquisitions, as well as the evaluation of new information that results in a change to a tax position taken in a prior period. 33 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan for employees in the united states. this defined benefit pension plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, discount rates and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plan and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plan. a significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. we manage our businesses utilizing complex integrated software and hardware information technology operating systems that are regularly maintained and upgraded; an interruption or disruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to incur excessive costs. we utilize complex integrated software and hardware operating systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units and we have a continuous improvement strategy in place to keep our systems and overarching technology stable and in line with business needs and growth. regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are typical and expected. we employ controlled change management methodologies to plan, test and execute all such system upgrades and improvements, and we believe that we assign adequate staffing and other resources to projects to ensure successful implementation. however, we cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. we cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems. we are in the midst of a multiyear process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning (erp) system at coopervision. implementing a new erp system is not only costly but complex and difficult. implementing a new erp system can negatively affect not only financial accounting and reporting processes but also external commercial activities such as order receipt and product delivery. there can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our new erp system or that we will avoid these and other negative impacts from our implementation efforts. cybersecurity threats continue to increase in frequency and sophistication; a successful cybersecurity attack could interrupt or disrupt our information technology systems or cause the loss of confidential or protected data which could disrupt our business, force us to incur excessive costs or cause reputational harm. the size and complexity of our information systems make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. while we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent or quickly identify service interruptions or security breaches. any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. we maintain cyber liability insurance; however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. 34 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit, develop and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, develop and retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing, engineering and scientific personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. we also have the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have anti-takeover effects. risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products and services our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of medical device and pharmaceutical design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling (including, for example, unique device identifier regulations), storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion, advertising and distribution, as well as product import and export. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, fines, warning letters, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. our medical devices and pharmaceutical products require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices and drug products may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining, renewing and maintaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such clearances and approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, and significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements may occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda and authorities in foreign jurisdictions may change their policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products, increase the cost of compliance, impose additional regulatory requirements on us, or otherwise impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. modifications and enhancements to medical devices and drug products also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change 35 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer's decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for a modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. any failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may significantly and adversely affect our ability to commercialize and generate revenue from our product candidates. if regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is withdrawn, the value of our company and our operating results may be adversely affected. the fda's and other regulatory authorities' policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. for example, in december 2016, the 21st century cures act (cures act), was signed into law. the cures act, among other things, is intended to modernize the regulation of drugs and medical devices and spur innovation, but its ultimate implementation is unclear. if we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. we also cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative or executive action, either in the united states, such as new policies introduced by the trump administration, or abroad. increased regulatory scrutiny of genetic testing may adversely affect our business through increased costs and risks associated with gaining marketing approvals and potential decreased demand for our genetic testing services. we offer certain genetic testing services to help identify the likelihood of pregnancy as well as identify possible disorders or diseases of a child prior to birth. regulatory and legislative proposals addressing oversight of genetic testing have been introduced in the united states, and we expect that new proposals will be introduced from time to time both in the united states and in foreign countries in the future. although the fda has statutory authority to assure that medical devices, including ivds, are safe and effective for their intended uses, the fda has historically exercised its enforcement discretion and not enforced applicable provisions of the fdca and regulations with respect to ldt. we believe our tests fall within the definition of an ldt. as a result, we believe our tests are not currently subject to the fda's enforcement of its medical device regulations and the applicable fdca provisions. however, our tests may in the future become subject to more onerous regulation by the fda. legislative proposals addressing the fda's oversight of ldts have been introduced by congress in the past and new legislative proposals may be introduced from time to time in the future. the likelihood that congress will pass such legislation and the extent to which such legislation may affect the fda's ability to enforce its medical device regulations with respect to certain ldts is difficult to predict at this time. if the fda ultimately begins to enforce its medical device requirements with respect to ldts, our genetic tests may be subject to additional regulatory requirements imposed by the fda, the nature and extent of which would depend upon applicable final guidance or regulation by the fda or instruction by congress. if the fda imposes 36 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries significant changes to the regulation of ldts it could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. any new fda enforcement policies affecting ldts or new legislation, regulations or guidance may result in increased regulatory burdens on our ability to continue marketing our products and to develop and introduce new products in the future, which could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state, local and foreign laboratory licensing requirements, we could lose the ability to perform our tests or experience disruptions to our business. we are subject to the clinical laboratory improvement amendments of 1988 (clia), a federal law regulating clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. our clinical laboratory must be certified under clia in order for us to perform testing on human specimens. in addition, our proprietary tests must also be recognized as part of our accredited programs under clia so that we can offer them in our laboratory. clia is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the united states by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. the law also requires us to maintain a state laboratory license to conduct testing in that state. our laboratories are located in the united states, and internationally in canada and the united kingdom, and we must maintain the requisite licenses in each jurisdiction. development and marketing of our products are subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, the reporting of certain payments to health care practitioners in certain markets (for example, the french sunshine act of 2013), duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. however, our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda's qsr regulations, which require manufacturers to follow, among other things, design, testing, production, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious 37 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. medical device manufacturers, such as coopervision and coopersurgical, may, under their own initiative, recall a product if a reasonable possibility of serious injury or any material deficiency in a device is found, or withdraw a product to improve device performance or for other reasons. the fda requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to the fda within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. recalls of any of our products may divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a recall could harm our reputation with customers and consumers which could reduce the sales of our products. in addition, the fda or other foreign governmental agencies may implement enforcement actions in connection with a recall which could impair our product offerings and be harmful to our business and financial results. changes in legislation and government regulation of the health care industry both in the united states and internationally, as well as third-party payors' efforts to control the costs of health care could materially adversely affect our business. the aca made extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the united states. among the provisions of the aca, of greatest importance to the medical device industry and pharmaceutical industry are the following: establishment of the patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; reporting and disclosure requirements on medical device and pharmaceutical manufacturers for certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and physicians family members, certain healthcare facilities, and any ownership and investment interests held by physicians and physician family members, and any payments or other transfers of value to such owners. manufacturers are required to submit reports to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms) by the 90 th day of each calendar year; absent new legislation, a 2.3 percent excise tax, currently suspended, will be reinstated as of january 1, 2020, on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the united states, with limited exceptions, which exceptions include all contact lenses; payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models; creation of the independent payment advisory board which has authority to recommend certain changes to reduce medicare spending and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if congress doesn't act on the recommendations; establishment of a center for medicare innovation at cms to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower medicare and medicaid spending; and an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the medicaid drug rebate program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for most branded and generic drugs, respectively. these measures could result in decreased net revenues or increased expenses from our fertility, office and surgical products and decrease potential returns from our development efforts. there have been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the aca, and we expect there will be additional 38 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries challenges and amendments to the aca in the future. additionally, recent reform proposals have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to tax and trade policies, tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the united states and other countries. major developments in tax policy or trade relations could have a material effect on our balance sheet and results of operations. other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the affordable care act was enacted. the budget control act of 2011, among other things, created the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reductions to several government programs. these reductions include aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments, will remain in effect until 2025 unless additional action is taken by congress. the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. in addition, the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015, among other things, repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. we expect that additional state and federal health care reform measures will be adopted in the future, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for health care products and services, which could adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products, or result in additional pricing pressures. also, any adoption of health care reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. in addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the united states or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of health care. these cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering health care. although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may enroll as in-network providers and suppliers with certain payors. although, becoming an in-network provider or enrolling as a supplier means that we have agreed with these payors to provide certain of our tests at negotiated rates, it does not obligate any physicians to order our tests or guarantee that we will receive reimbursement for our tests from these or any other payors at adequate levels. thus, these payor relationships, or any similar relationships we may establish in the future, may not result in acceptable levels of reimbursement for our tests or meaningful increases in our physician customer base. we cannot predict whether, under what circumstances, or at what payment levels payors will cover and reimburse for our tests. if we fail to establish and maintain broad coverage and reimbursement for our tests, our ability to generate increased revenue and grow our test volume and customer base could be limited and our future prospects and our business could suffer. on april 5, 2017, the european parliament passed the medical devices regulation, which repeals and replaces the eu medical devices directive. unlike directives, which must be implemented into the 39 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries national laws of the european economic area (eea) member states, the regulations would be directly applicable (i.e., without the need for adoption of eea member state laws implementing them) in all eea member states and are intended to eliminate current differences in the regulation of medical devices among eea member states. the medical devices regulation, among other things, is intended to establish a uniform, transparent, predictable and sustainable regulatory framework across the eea for medical devices and in vitro diagnostic devices and ensure a high level of safety and health while supporting innovation. the medical devices regulation will, however, only become applicable in 2020 and the in-vitro diagnostic medical devices regulation will become applicable in 2022. once applicable, the new regulations will among other things: strengthen the rules on placing devices on the market and reinforce surveillance once they are available; establish explicit provisions on manufacturers' responsibilities for the follow-up of the quality, performance and safety of devices placed on the market; improve the traceability of medical devices throughout the supply chain to the end-user or patient through a unique identification number; set up a central database to provide patients, healthcare professionals and the public with comprehensive information on products available in the eu; and strengthen rules for the assessment of certain high-risk devices, such as implants, which may have to undergo an additional check by experts before they are placed on the market. these modifications may have an impact on the way we conduct our business in the eea and an adverse impact on our overall business operations and financial results. the costs of complying with the requirements of federal and state laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. state and federal laws and regulations, including the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa) govern the collection, dissemination, use, privacy, confidentiality, security, availability and integrity of individually identifiable information, including protected health information (phi). hipaa establishes basic national privacy and security standards for protection of phi by covered entities such as our genetics testing subsidiaries and the business associates with whom such entities contract for services, including another one of our subsidiaries, eye care prime llc, which offers value-added software solutions for eye care professionals. hipaa requires both covered entities and business associates to develop and maintain policies and procedures for phi that is used or disclosed, and to adopt administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect phi. when we are acting as a business associate, our clients that are covered entities are mandated by hipaa to enter into written agreements with us - known as business associate agreements - that require us to safeguard phi in accordance with hipaa. our genetics testing subsidiaries are likewise required to enter into business associate agreements with any of their business associates. 40 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries mandatory penalties for hipaa violations can be significant. a single breach incident can result in violations of multiple standards. if a person knowingly or intentionally obtains or discloses phi in violation of hipaa requirements, criminal penalties may also be imposed. we maintain safeguards that we believe are reasonable and appropriate to protect the privacy and security of phi and other personally identifiable information consistent with applicable law and our contractual obligations; however, our systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, viruses, hackers, and other potential sources of security breaches. in addition, we may not be able to prevent incidences of inappropriate use or unauthorized access to phi by our employees or contractors. any such breaches could result in exposure to liability under federal and state laws and/or under our contractual arrangements and could adversely impact our business. we are also subject to laws and regulations in countries other than united states covering data privacy and the protection of health-related and other personal information. eu member states and other jurisdictions have adopted data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. for example, the eu data protection directive, as implemented into national laws by the eu member states, imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the processing of personal data. the new eu-wide general data protection regulation (gdpr) entered into force in may 2016 and became applicable on may 25, 2018, replacing the current data protection laws of each eu member state. the gdpr implemented more stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including, for example, expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information, increased requirements pertaining to health data and pseudonymised (i.e., key-coded) data, mandatory data breach notification requirements and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with privacy or security laws, policies, legal obligations or industry standards or any security incident that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information may result in governmental enforcement actions and investigations including by european data protection authorities, fines and penalties (for example, of up to 20,000,000 euros or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year (whichever is higher) under the gdpr and eprivacy regulation), litigation and/or adverse publicity, including by consumer advocacy groups, and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. such failures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. if the third parties we work with violate applicable laws, contractual obligations or suffer a security breach, such violations may also put us in breach of our obligations under privacy laws and regulations and/or could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business. laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws and false claims laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex 41 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. massachusetts issued regulations governing the conduct of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with respect to health care practitioners that sets forth what medical device manufacturers may and may not permissibly do with respect to providing meals, sponsoring continuing medical education and otherwise providing payments or items of economic benefit to health care practitioners located within the state. additionally, the regulation requires medical device manufacturers to have in place robust fraud and abuse compliance programs. other states (e.g., california, vermont and nevada) have adopted similar laws. these laws and regulations act to limit our marketing practices, require the dedication of resources to ensure compliance, and expose us to additional liabilities. in addition, the aca, among other things, amended the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and certain criminal health care fraud statutes so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. the aca also provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of these statutes constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil false claims act or the civil monetary penalties statute. in addition, federal government price reporting laws, changed by the aca to, among other things, increase the minimum medicaid rebates owed by most manufacturers under the medicaid drug rebate program and offer such rebates to additional populations, that require us to calculate and report complex pricing metrics to government programs, where such reported prices may be used in the calculation of reimbursement and/or discounts on our marketed drugs. participation in these programs and compliance with the applicable requirements may subject us to potentially significant discounts on our products, increased infrastructure costs and potentially limit our ability to offer certain marketplace discounts. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, changes in these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to further change our business practices or subject our existing business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ethical, legal and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our tests. genetic testing has raised ethical, legal and social issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. government authorities could, for social or other purposes, limit or regulate the use of genetic information or genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, these concerns may lead patients to refuse to use, or physicians to be reluctant to order, genetic tests even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal and social concerns may limit market acceptance and adoption of our tests or reduce the potential markets for our tests, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. we are exposed to market risks that relate principally to changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. to the extent reasonable and practical, we may decide to reduce the risk of changing interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations on the underlying exposure by entering into interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, respectively. we do not emphasize such transactions to the same degree as some other companies with international operations. we do not enter into derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. we operate multiple foreign subsidiaries that manufacture and market our products worldwide. as a result, our earnings, cash flow and financial position are exposed to foreign currency risk from foreign currency denominated receivables and payables, sales transactions, capital expenditures and net investment in certain foreign operations. we are exposed to risks caused by changes in foreign exchange, primarily to the british pound sterling, euro, japanese yen, danish krone, swedish krona, australian dollar and canadian dollar. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our nonfunctional currency exposure, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. at october 31, 2018 , a uniform hypothetical 5% increase or decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the united states dollar would have resulted in a corresponding increase or decrease in approximately $30.0 million in operating income for the fiscal year ended october 31, 2018 . for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors - " our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. and see note 1. accounting policies of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. we are also exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates, as the interest rate on our senior unsecured syndicated credit facilities, including the revolving credit agreement and term loans, may vary with the federal funds rate and london interbank offered rate (libor). we may decrease this interest rate risk by hedging a portion of variable rate debt effectively converting it to fixed rate debt. subsequent to the fiscal year ended october 31, 2018 , on november 1, 2018 , the company entered into a 364-day, $400.0 million , senior unsecured term loan agreement by and among the company, the lenders party thereto and pnc bank, national association, as administrative agent which matures on october 31, 2019 (the 2018 term loan agreement). the company used the funds it has drawn under the facility to partially repay outstanding borrowings under the company's 2016 revolving credit facility. see note 14. subsequent event of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. on november 1, 2017 , in connection with the paragard acquisition, we entered into a five -year, $1.425 billion , senior unsecured term loan agreement (2017 term loan agreement) by and among the company, the lenders party thereto and dnb bank asa, new york branch, as administrative agent which matures on november 1, 2022. the company used part of the facility to fund the paragard 70 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries acquisition and used the remainder of the funds to partially repay outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit agreement. at october 31, 2018 , we had $1.425 billion outstanding under the 2017 term loan agreement. on march 1, 2016 , we entered into a revolving credit and term loan agreement (2016 credit agreement) with keybank national association, as administrative agent. the 2016 credit agreement provides for a multicurrency revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion (2016 revolving credit facility) and a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $830.0 million (2016 term loan facility), each of which, unless terminated earlier, mature on march 1, 2021. the 2016 credit agreement replaced our previous credit agreement and funds from the 2016 term loan facility were used to repay other outstanding loans and for general corporate purposes. at october 31, 2018 , we had $125.0 million outstanding under the 2016 term loan facility and $560.5 million available under the 2016 revolving credit facility. see note 4. debt of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. october 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 short-term debt $ 37.1 $ 23.4 long-term debt 1,989.2 1,153.2 less: unamortized debt issuance cost (3.5 ) (3.9 ) total $ 2,022.8 $ 1,172.7 at october 31, 2018 , the scheduled maturities of our variable rate long-term debt obligations, their weighted average interest rates: expected maturity date fiscal year ($ in millions) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total fair value long-term debt: variable interest rate $ $ $ 564.2 $ $ 1,425.0 $ $ 1,989.2 $1,989.2 average interest rate 3.5 % 3.5 % as the table incorporates only those exposures that existed as of october 31, 2018 , it does not consider those exposures or positions which could arise after that date. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on interest rates, the exposures that arise during the period and our hedging strategies at that time. as of october 31, 2018 , we had no outstanding interest rate swaps. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1% or 100 basis points, annual interest expense would increase or decrease by approximately $23.9 million based on average debt outstanding for fiscal 2018. for further information about our debt, see item 1a. risk factors - we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. and note 1. accounting policies and note 4. debt of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 71 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiariesrisk factors 23 risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive health care industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens business, coopervision faces intense competition from competitors' products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our largest competitors in the contact lens business, johnson &amp; johnson vision care, inc. and alcon inc. may have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and/or larger manufacturing volumes than coopervision. they offer competitive products and differentiated materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. the market for contact lenses is intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to introduce new products successfully, on a timely basis in the americas, emea and asia pacific, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, coopervision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, for example with increased product entries from asia pacific contact lens manufacturers, or that our competitors' newer contact lens products will not successfully erode coopervision's contact lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the contact lens industry also continues to evolve with respect to the introduction of new distribution and fulfillment models and service technologies which may conflict with coopervision's strategy or interfere with its customers' relationships and loyalty. for example, more contact lenses are being fulfilled directly to the consumer by manufacturers and wholesalers via online platforms, telemedicine is gaining popularity and more vision correction prescriptions are being provided through online refractive exams rather than in office by an eye care practitioner. coopervision's failure to adapt to the threats posed by these new and emerging distribution models and internet driven services may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the women's health care market, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, access to local markets based on regulatory clearances, price and effective communication of product information to physicians, hospitals, patients and ivf clinics. coopersurgical competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche areas, some of which have substantially 23 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. acquisitions that we have made and may make in the future involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at coopersurgical and at coopervision, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. coopervision acquired blanchard contact lenses in fiscal 2019; paragon vision sciences and blueyes in fiscal 2018. coopersurgical acquired incisive surgical inc. in fiscal 2019; paragard and lifeglobal in fiscal 2018. risks we could face with respect to these acquisitions include: failure to successfully obtain the anticipated revenues, margins and earnings benefits; difficulties in, and expenses related to, the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures, including but not limited to third party compliance and due diligence; increased leverage and the risk of lack of access to available financing, including financing for the acquisition or refinancing of debt owed by us on a timely basis and on reasonable terms; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities, contingent liabilities or indemnification obligations of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations or terminate our employees; application of and compliance with new and unfamiliar regulatory frameworks such as pharmaceutical regulation applicable to our paragard ius; failure to successfully obtain or maintain reimbursements under the third party payor plans, including but not limited to governmental programs, due to complex reporting and payment obligations; a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations and the risk that we are required to record significant adjustments to the preliminary fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed within the measurement period. product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence if we are unable to develop new products or gain regulatory approvals or if our competitors introduce new products. product innovations are important in the contact lens market in which coopervision competes and in the areas of the health care industry in which coopersurgical competes. coopersurgical has historically purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. over the past few years, coopersurgical has invested in expanding the internal research and development function with the goal of 24 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries organic growth and to complement our acquisitions strategy. coopervision, both internally and externally with third parties, invests in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. while much of coopervision's research and development activities are performed internally, it also uses external research and development investment in collaborations and joint development with third parties. research and development time commitments, higher feasibility risk with longer term projects, greater dependence on, and reduced control over, third party deliverables, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies, such as contact lenses with anti-microbial or anti-allergenic features, or smart contact lenses which incorporate electronics that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. competitors may also introduce new uses for contact lenses, such as for drug delivery or the control of myopia. failure to develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them, assuming they receive necessary regulatory approvals, will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. the development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: acceptance of our products by eye care and health care practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory and legislative requirements; adequate coverage and reimbursement by third party payors; the earlier release of competitive products, such as new silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care, family and women's health care, and diagnostics testing industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, and genetic testing technology may limit demand for our products and services. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. if these new advances provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations are conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america, latin america 25 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries and europe. over half of our net sales for the fiscal years ended october 31, 2019 and 2018, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan and china because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; we may find it difficult to grow in emerging markets such as china, india, russia, brazil and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped and/or unfamiliar distribution channels, regulatory restrictions and changes, and business knowledge of these new markets; tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions, including the tariffs enacted by the u.s. government on various imports from china and by the chinese government on certain u.s. goods, the scope and duration of which remain uncertain; we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of united states and foreign legal, compliance and regulatory requirements such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the dodd-frank act, the u.k. bribery act and international data security and privacy laws and mdr and ivdr; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce and other nations' import-export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; foreign governments may adopt regulations, including those similar to mdr and ivdr or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities, including but not limited to increased enforcement of potentially conflicting and ambiguous anti-bribery laws; we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; and we may be subject to unforeseen economic or political events in certain countries that may have an impact on our customers' ability or preferences to buy our products. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business. over the last few years in the united states and globally, market and economic conditions have been challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth. foreign countries, in particular the euro zone, have experienced recessionary pressures and face continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions and geopolitical issues. concerns about the euro zone's 26 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries sovereign debt in recent years have caused uncertainty and disruption in the financial markets globally. while the global financial markets have showed general signs of improvement, uncertainty remains. any negative impact on economic conditions and international markets, continued volatility or deterioration in the debt and equity capital markets, inflation, deflation or other adverse economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. it may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. global markets continued to face threats and uncertainty during fiscal 2019. uncertain economic and financial market conditions may also adversely affect the financial condition of our customers, suppliers and other business partners. if our customers' financial conditions are adversely affected, customers may reduce their purchases of our products or we may not be able to collect accounts receivable, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations or financial results. coopervision and coopersurgical are encountering consolidation in their customer bases and emergence of more centralized large customer groups and retail chains. due to this trend, global and regional key account customers now represent a larger proportion or concentration of our business and any disruption to these relationships may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. the results of the united kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the european union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. we are a multinational company headquartered in the united states with worldwide operations, with significant business operations in europe, including in the united kingdom. in june 2016, a majority of voters in the united kingdom elected to withdraw from the european union in a national referendum. in march 2017, the government of the united kingdom formally gave notice of its intent to withdraw from the european union. serving this notice began a two-year period for the united kingdom to negotiate terms for its withdrawal from the european union. the european union and the united kingdom have agreed to delay the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union multiple times. currently, january 31, 2020 is the deadline to reach an agreement regarding the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union and their relationship following such a withdrawal. if an agreement is not reached, or the deadline not postponed, prior to january 31, 2020, the united kingdom may withdraw from the european union without an agreement in place. there is significant uncertainty regarding the terms of any agreement between the united kingdom and the european union and the potential for a no-deal withdrawal. these developments have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets. given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what implications the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union will have and how such withdrawal could affect, or whether it could have a material adverse effect on, our business, financial condition and operating results. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 27 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; result in greater interest rate risk and volatility; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facilities under certain circumstances, or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain a desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we may use interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to manage our risks effectively and, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. the united kingdom's financial conduct authority, which regulates the london interbank offered rate (libor), announced in july 2017 that it will no longer persuade or require banks to submit rates for libor after 2021. we have multiple debt facilities which bear interest at a variable rate based on the eurodollar libor rate in effect from time to time. a change or transition away from libor as a common reference rate in the global financial market could have a material, adverse effect on our business. management continues to monitor the status and discussions regarding libor. we are not yet able to reasonably estimate the expected impact. exchange rate fluctuations and our foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen. we are also exposed to the danish krone, swedish krona, australian dollar and canadian dollar among other currencies. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. to the extent we are unable to materially offset non-nonfunctional currency flows, exchange rate fluctuations could have a positive or negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings and can make it more difficult for our shareholders to understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-over-period comparative basis. although from time to time we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our net exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our non-functional currency obligations or balances, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. 28 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries we face risks associated with disruption of our manufacturing and distribution operations including possible failure to develop necessary manufacturing processes, or constrained, idle or excess capacity could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing or distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, integration difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), enforcement action by the fda or other regulatory body if we are found to be in non-compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. while we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete. conversely, constrained, excess or idle capacity, which could result from acquisitions, unexpected demand, inaccurate sales forecasting or unexpected manufacturing efficiencies, could significantly impact our profitability, capital investments, customer service levels and near term financial condition. coopervision manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent the majority of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom, puerto rico, hungary, costa rica, belgium and the united states with other smaller locations also existing in multiple locations around the world. coopersurgical manufactures the majority of its products in the united states, costa rica, the netherlands and the united kingdom with other smaller locations also existing in multiple locations around the world. in november 2017, coopersurgical purchased a manufacturing facility in costa rica to consolidate a portion of global manufacturing. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we generally have not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. coopervision distributes products out of the united states, the united kingdom, belgium and various smaller international distribution facilities. coopersurgical's products are primarily distributed out of its facilities in united states and the netherlands. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, challenges related to system implementation, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, our products could be subject to recall, and sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda's cgmp for medical devices, known as the qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to comply with qsr requirements and other applicable domestic or international regulatory requirements or to respond to 29 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, warning letters, significant fines, injunctions, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. we rely on independent suppliers in our supply chain for raw materials, packaging materials and components, mechanical equipment and some finished goods; we could experience inventory shortages if any of these suppliers encounter a manufacturing or distribution disruption our businesses utilize various chemicals, packaging materials, components, parts and raw materials which are generally available from more than one source. however, in certain instances we acquire components and materials from sole or primary suppliers to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens, certain medical devices and ivf products. we also source mechanical equipment and in certain instances finished goods from oem suppliers. supply of these goods, items and materials is protected by contractual agreements, availability of alternative suppliers and/or safety stocks. however, if current suppliers fail to supply sufficient goods, items or materials to us on a timely basis, or at all for any reason, we could experience inventory shortages and disruption in our supply of products. for example, among other situations, some of the primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, including myday, biofinity, avaira and clariti, are supplied by a sole supplier, and the failure of a key or sole supplier to timely supply sufficient items and materials necessary for the manufacture of our silicone hydrogel contact lenses could in turn disrupt our supply of those lenses to the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also may seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to 30 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. we also cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. both coopervision and coopersurgical also rely on proprietary technology which is unpatented. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. we rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. to maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. we also might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. the laws of foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future may not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products or processes could be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others. our competitors in both the united states and foreign countries, some of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, as well as other third parties, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. in the contact lens industry, coopervision, its competitors and other third parties hold patents covering contact lens designs, business methods, processes and materials. claims that our products, business methods or processes infringe upon the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales of products incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industries. for example, coopervision in the past faced significant patent litigation over its silicone hydrogel contact lens products. third parties have made, and may make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology. any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or re-engineer our products, if feasible; divert management's attention and resources; or 31 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims or legal claims relating to our service offerings, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. additionally, we face the inherent risk of exposure to legal claims, including negligence, relating to our provision of certain service offerings, including our genetic testing services and their accuracy. consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product or service that is the subject of a claim or recall or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, legal claims relating to our service offerings, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing products, in the future. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of united states federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. we continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. these regulations include, for example, regulations enacted in the european union such as the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemical substances, or reach, which requires the registration of and regulates use of certain chemicals, the restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive, or rohs, which regulates the use of certain hazardous substances in certain products our coopersurgical division manufactures. these and similar legislation that has been or is in the process of being enacted in japan, china and various states of the u.s. may require us to re-design certain products to ensure compliance with the applicable. 32 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. determination of the company's effective tax rate and evaluation of its tax positions is uncertain with rapidly changing enactment, interpretation and enforcement of tax regulations by taxing authorities globally. when tax matters arise, several years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. unfavorable resolution of any tax matter in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could increase the effective tax rate, which would have an adverse effect on the company's operating results. any resolution of a tax matter may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. we are also subject to the examination of our income tax returns by other tax authorities and the outcome of these examinations could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we recently faced an inquiry by the united kingdom tax authorities regarding the application of the united kingdom diverted profits tax (dpt) related to the transfer out of the united kingdom of certain intellectual property rights in connection with the 2014 acquisition of sauflon pharmaceutical ltd., which we resolved in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various jurisdictions outside of the united states. our effective tax rate could fluctuate due to changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates. our tax expense could also be impacted by changes in non-deductible expenses, changes in excess tax benefits of stock-based compensation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and our ability to utilize them, the applicability of withholding taxes and effects from acquisitions. we are subject to tax examinations in multiple jurisdictions. while we regularly evaluate new information that may change our judgment resulting in recognition, derecognition or change in measurement of a tax position taken, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. our tax provision could also be impacted by changes in accounting principles, and changes in u.s. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. the u.s. enacted the tax cuts and jobs act (the 2017 act) on december 22, 2017, as a result of which we recognized in fiscal 2018 a provisional amount of $214.6 million as reasonable estimate of the impact of the provisions of the 2017 act. as of october 31, 2019, we have completed our accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the 2017 act and did not recognize any material adjustments to the provisional tax expense previously recorded; however, certain provisions of the 2017 act and the regulations issued thereunder could have a significant impact on our future results of operations. in addition, government agencies in non-u.s. jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business and the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd), have recently focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. one example is in the area of base erosion and profit shifting, where profits are claimed to be earned for tax purposes in low-tax jurisdictions, or payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. the oecd has released several components of its comprehensive plan to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting. as a result, the tax laws in the u.s. and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change and any such change could be materially and adversely affect our business. 33 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries we may also be subject to additional tax liabilities and penalties due to changes in non-income based taxes resulting from changes in federal, state or international tax laws, changes in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions, results of tax examinations, settlements or judicial decisions, changes in accounting principles, changes to the business operations, including acquisitions, as well as the evaluation of new information that results in a change to a tax position taken in a prior period. volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan for employees in the united states. this defined benefit pension plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, discount rates and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plan and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plan. a significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. we manage our businesses utilizing complex integrated software and hardware information technology operating systems that are regularly maintained and upgraded; an interruption or disruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to incur excessive costs. we utilize complex integrated software and hardware operating systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units and we have a continuous improvement strategy in place to keep our systems and overarching technology stable and in line with business needs and growth. regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are typical and expected. we employ controlled change management methodologies to plan, test and execute all such system upgrades and improvements, and we believe that we assign adequate staffing and other resources to projects to ensure successful implementation. however, we cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. we cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems. we are in the midst of a multiyear process of implementing new enterprise resource planning (erp) systems at coopervision and coopersurgical. implementing a new erp system is not only costly but complex and difficult. implementing a new erp system can negatively affect not only financial accounting and reporting processes but also external commercial activities such as order receipt and product delivery. there can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our new erp system or that we will avoid these and other negative impacts from our implementation efforts. cybersecurity threats continue to increase in frequency and sophistication; a successful cybersecurity attack could interrupt or disrupt our information technology systems or cause the loss of confidential or protected data which could disrupt our business, force us to incur excessive costs or cause reputational harm. the size and complexity of our information systems make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. while we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent or quickly identify service interruptions or security breaches. any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and 34 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries reputational harm to us. we maintain cyber liability insurance; however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit, develop and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, develop and retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing, engineering and scientific personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. we also have the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have anti-takeover effects. risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products and services. our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of medical device and pharmaceutical design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling (including, for example, unique device identifier regulations), storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion, advertising and distribution, as well as product import and export. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, fines, warning letters, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. our medical devices and pharmaceutical products require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices and drug products may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining, renewing and maintaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such clearances and approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, and significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements may occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda and authorities in foreign jurisdictions may change their policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products, increase the cost of compliance, impose additional regulatory requirements on us, or otherwise impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. modifications and enhancements to medical devices and drug products also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change 35 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer's decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for a modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. any failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may significantly and adversely affect our ability to commercialize and generate revenue from our product candidates. if regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is withdrawn, the value of our company and our operating results may be adversely affected. the fda's and other regulatory authorities' policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. if we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. we also cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative or executive action, either in the united states, such as new policies introduced by the trump administration, or abroad. increased regulatory scrutiny of genetic testing may adversely affect our business through increased costs and risks associated with gaining marketing approvals and potential decreased demand for our genetic testing services. we offer certain genetic testing services to help identify the likelihood of pregnancy as well as identify possible disorders or diseases of a child prior to birth. regulatory and legislative proposals addressing oversight of genetic testing have been introduced in the united states, and we expect that new proposals will be introduced from time to time both in the united states and in foreign countries in the future. although the fda has statutory authority to assure that medical devices, including ivds, are safe and effective for their intended uses, the fda has historically exercised its enforcement discretion and not enforced applicable provisions of the fdca and regulations with respect to ldt. we believe our tests fall within the definition of an ldt. as a result, we believe our tests are not currently subject to the fda's enforcement of its medical device regulations and the applicable fdca provisions. however, our tests may in the future become subject to more onerous regulation by the fda. legislative proposals addressing the fda's oversight of ldt have been introduced by congress in the past and new legislative proposals may be introduced from time to time in the future. the likelihood that congress will pass such legislation and the extent to which such legislation may affect the fda's ability to enforce its medical device regulations with respect to certain ldt is difficult to predict at this time. if the fda ultimately begins to enforce its medical device requirements with respect to ldt, our genetic tests may be subject to additional regulatory requirements imposed by the fda, the nature and extent of which would depend upon applicable final guidance or regulation by the fda or instruction by congress. if the fda imposes significant changes to the regulation of ldt it could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. any new fda enforcement policies affecting ldt or new legislation, regulations such as ivdr or guidance may result in increased regulatory burdens on our ability to continue marketing our products and 36 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries to develop and introduce new products in the future, which could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state, local and foreign laboratory licensing requirements, we could lose the ability to perform our tests or experience disruptions to our business. we are subject to the clinical laboratory improvement amendments of 1988 (clia), uk human fertilization &amp; embryology association (hfea) regulating ivf, a federal law regulating clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. our clinical laboratories must be certified under clia and iso 15189 in order for us to perform testing on human specimens. in addition, our proprietary tests must also be recognized as part of our accredited programs under clia so that we can offer them in our laboratory. clia is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the united states by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. the law also requires us to maintain a state laboratory license to conduct testing in that state. our laboratories are located in the united states, and internationally in canada and the united kingdom, and we must maintain the requisite licenses in each jurisdiction. development and marketing of our products are subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, the reporting of certain payments to health care practitioners in certain markets (for example, the french sunshine act of 2013), duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. however, our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda's qsr regulations, which require manufacturers to follow, among other things, design, testing, production, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. medical device manufacturers, such as coopervision and coopersurgical, may, under their own initiative, recall a product if a reasonable possibility of serious injury or any material deficiency in a device is found, or withdraw a product to improve device performance or for other reasons. the fda requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to the fda within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. 37 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries recalls of any of our products may divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a recall could harm our reputation with customers and consumers which could reduce the sales of our products. in addition, the fda or other foreign governmental agencies may implement enforcement actions in connection with a recall which could impair our product offerings and be harmful to our business and financial results. changes in legislation and government regulation of the health care industry both in the united states and internationally, as well as third-party payors' efforts to control the costs of health care could materially adversely affect our business. the aca made extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the united states. among the provisions of the aca, of greatest importance to the medical device industry and pharmaceutical industry are the following: establishment of the patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; reporting and disclosure requirements on medical device and pharmaceutical manufacturers for certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and physicians family members, certain healthcare facilities, and any ownership and investment interests held by physicians and physician family members, and any payments or other transfers of value to such owners. manufacturers are required to submit reports to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms) by the 90 th day of each calendar year; absent new legislation, a 2.3% excise tax, currently suspended, will be reinstated as of january 1, 2020, on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the united states, with limited exceptions, which exceptions include all contact lenses; payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models; creation of the independent payment advisory board which has authority to recommend certain changes to reduce medicare spending and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if congress doesn't act on the recommendations; establishment of a center for medicare innovation at cms to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower medicare and medicaid spending; and an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the medicaid drug rebate program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for most branded and generic drugs, respectively. these measures could result in decreased net revenues or increased expenses from our fertility, office and surgical products and decrease potential returns from our development efforts. there have been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the aca, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to the aca in the future. additionally, recent reform proposals have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to tax and trade policies, tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the united states and other countries. major developments in tax policy or trade relations could have a material effect on our balance sheet and results of operations. other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the affordable care act was enacted. the budget control act of 2011, among other things, created the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reductions to several government programs. these reductions 38 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries include aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments, will remain in effect until 2025 unless additional action is taken by congress. the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. in addition, the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015, among other things, repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. we expect that additional state and federal health care reform measures will be adopted in the future, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for health care products and services, which could adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products, or result in additional pricing pressures. also, any adoption of health care reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. in addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the united states or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of health care. these cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering health care. although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may enroll as in-network providers and suppliers with certain payors. although, becoming an in-network provider or enrolling as a supplier means that we have agreed with these payors to provide certain of our tests at negotiated rates, it does not obligate any physicians to order our tests or guarantee that we will receive reimbursement for our tests from these or any other payors at adequate levels. thus, these payor relationships, or any similar relationships we may establish in the future, may not result in acceptable levels of reimbursement for our tests or meaningful increases in our physician customer base. we cannot predict whether, under what circumstances, or at what payment levels payors will cover and reimburse for our tests. if we fail to establish and maintain broad coverage and reimbursement for our tests, our ability to generate increased revenue and grow our test volume and customer base could be limited and our future prospects and our business could suffer. on april 5, 2017, the european parliament passed the medical devices regulation, which repeals and replaces the eu medical devices directive. unlike directives, which must be implemented into the national laws of the european economic area (eea) member states, the regulations would be directly applicable (i.e., without the need for adoption of eea member state laws implementing them) in all eea member states and are intended to eliminate current differences in the regulation of medical devices among eea member states. the medical devices regulation, among other things, is intended to establish a uniform, transparent, predictable and sustainable regulatory framework across the eea for medical devices and in vitro diagnostic devices and ensure a high level of safety and health while supporting innovation. mdr will become applicable in 2020 and ivdr will become applicable in 2022. once applicable, the new regulations will, among other things: strengthen the rules on placing devices on the market and reinforce surveillance once they are available; 39 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries establish explicit provisions on manufacturers' responsibilities for the follow-up of the quality, performance and safety of devices placed on the market; improve the traceability of medical devices throughout the supply chain to the end-user or patient through a unique identification number; set up a central database to provide patients, healthcare professionals and the public with comprehensive information on products available in the eu; and strengthen rules for the assessment of certain high-risk devices, such as implants, which may have to undergo an additional check by experts before they are placed on the market. these modifications may have an impact on the way we conduct our business in the eea and an adverse impact on our overall business operations and financial results. the costs of complying with the requirements of federal and state laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. state and federal laws and regulations, including the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa) govern the collection, dissemination, use, privacy, confidentiality, security, availability and integrity of individually identifiable information, including protected health information (phi). hipaa establishes basic national privacy and security standards for protection of phi by covered entities such as our genetics testing subsidiaries and the business associates with whom such entities contract for services, including another one of our subsidiaries, eye care prime llc, which offers value-added software solutions for eye care professionals. hipaa requires both covered entities and business associates to develop and maintain policies and procedures for phi that is used or disclosed, and to adopt administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect phi. when we are acting as a business associate, our clients that are covered entities are mandated by hipaa to enter into written agreements with us - known as business associate agreements - that require us to safeguard phi in accordance with hipaa. our genetics testing subsidiaries are likewise required to enter into business associate agreements with any of their business associates. mandatory penalties for hipaa violations can be significant. a single breach incident can result in violations of multiple standards. if a person knowingly or intentionally obtains or discloses phi in violation of hipaa requirements, criminal penalties may also be imposed. we maintain safeguards that we believe are reasonable and appropriate to protect the privacy and security of phi and other personally identifiable information consistent with applicable law and our contractual obligations; however, our systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, viruses, hackers, and other potential sources of security breaches. in addition, we may not be able to prevent incidences of inappropriate use or unauthorized access to phi by our employees or contractors. any such breaches could result in exposure to liability under federal and state laws and/or under our contractual arrangements and could adversely impact our business. we are also subject to laws and regulations in countries other than united states covering data privacy and the protection of health-related and other personal information. eu member states and other jurisdictions have adopted data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. for example, the eu data protection directive, as implemented into national laws by the eu member states, imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the processing of personal data. the new eu-wide general data protection regulation (gdpr) became applicable on may 25, 2018, replacing the current data protection laws of each eu member state. the gdpr implemented more stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including, for example, 40 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information, increased requirements pertaining to health data and pseudonymized (i.e., key-coded) data, mandatory data breach notification requirements, handling data subject access requests and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with privacy or security laws, policies, legal obligations or industry standards or any security incident that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information may result in governmental enforcement actions and investigations including by european data protection authorities, fines and penalties (for example, of up to 20.0 million euros or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year (whichever is higher) under the gdpr and eprivacy regulation), litigation and/or adverse publicity, including by consumer advocacy groups, and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. such failures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. if the third parties we work with violate applicable laws, contractual obligations or suffer a security breach, such violations may also put us in breach of our obligations under privacy laws and regulations and/or could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business. laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws and false claims laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. massachusetts issued regulations governing the conduct of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with respect to health care practitioners that sets forth what medical device manufacturers may and may not permissibly do with respect to providing meals, sponsoring continuing medical education and otherwise providing payments or items of economic benefit to health care practitioners located within the state. additionally, the regulation requires medical device manufacturers to have in place robust fraud and abuse compliance programs. other states (e.g., california, vermont and nevada) have adopted similar laws. these laws and regulations act to limit our marketing practices, require the dedication of resources to ensure compliance, and expose us to additional liabilities. in addition, the aca, among other things, amended the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and certain criminal health care fraud statutes so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. the aca also provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of these statutes constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil false claims act or the civil monetary penalties statute. in addition, federal government price reporting laws, changed by the aca to, among other things, increase the minimum medicaid rebates owed by most manufacturers under the medicaid drug rebate program and offer such rebates to additional populations, that require us to calculate and report complex pricing metrics to government programs, where such reported prices may be used in the calculation of reimbursement and/or discounts on our marketed drugs. participation in these programs and compliance with the applicable requirements may subject us to potentially significant 41 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries discounts on our products, increased infrastructure costs and potentially limit our ability to offer certain marketplace discounts. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, changes in these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to further change our business practices or subject our existing business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ethical, legal and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our tests. genetic testing has raised ethical, legal and social issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. government authorities could, for social or other purposes, limit or regulate the use of genetic information or genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, these concerns may lead patients to refuse to use, or physicians to be reluctant to order, genetic tests even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal and social concerns may limit market acceptance and adoption of our tests or reduce the potential markets for our tests, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to market risks that relate principally to changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. to the extent reasonable and practical, we may decide to reduce the risk of changing interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations on the underlying exposure by entering into interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, respectively. we do not emphasize such transactions to the same degree as some other companies with international operations. we do not enter into derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. we operate multiple foreign subsidiaries that manufacture and market our products worldwide. as a result, our earnings, cash flow and financial position are exposed to foreign currency risk from foreign currency denominated receivables and payables, sales transactions, capital expenditures and net investment in certain foreign operations. most of our operations outside the united states have their local currency as their functional currency. we are exposed to risks caused by changes in foreign exchange, principally our british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen denominated debt and receivables denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar, and from operations in other foreign currencies. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our debt or receivables obligations, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. during fiscal 2019, there were no hedging transactions. at october 31, 2019 , a uniform hypothetical 5% increase or decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the united states dollar would have resulted in a corresponding increase or decrease in approximately $34.1 million in operating income for the fiscal year ended october 31, 2019 . for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors - " our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. and see note 1. accounting policies of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. we are also exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates, as the interest rates on our revolving lines of credit and term loans may vary with the federal funds rate and libor. we may decrease this interest rate risk by hedging a portion of variable rate debt effectively converting it to fixed rate debt for varying periods. as of october 31, 2019, we did not have any derivative assets or liabilities, including no interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps or foreign currency forward contracts. on november 1, 2018, we entered into a 364-day, $400.0 million, senior unsecured term loan agreement by and among us, the lenders party thereto and pnc bank, national association, as administrative agent which was scheduled to mature on october 31, 2019 (the 2018 term loan agreement). we used the funds to partially repay outstanding borrowings under the 2016 revolving credit facility. on september 27, 2019, we extended the maturity of the 2018 term loan agreement to september 25, 2020 and increased the amount to $500.0 million (as so amended, the 2019 term loan agreement). we used the additional funds to partially repay outstanding borrowings under the 2017 term loan agreement. at october 31, 2019, we had $500.0 million outstanding under the 2019 term loan agreement. on november 1, 2017 , in connection with the paragard acquisition, we entered into a five -year, $1.425 billion , senior unsecured term loan agreement (the 2017 term loan agreement) by and among us, 69 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries the lenders party thereto and dnb bank asa, new york branch, as administrative agent which matures on november 1, 2022. we used part of the facility to fund the paragard acquisition and used the remainder of the funds to partially repay outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit agreement. at october 31, 2019 , we had $1.0 billion outstanding under the 2017 term loan agreement. on march 1, 2016 , we entered into a syndicated revolving credit and term loan agreement (the 2016 credit agreement) with keybank national association, as administrative agent. the 2016 credit agreement provides for a multicurrency revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion (the 2016 revolving credit facility) and a term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $830.0 million (the 2016 term loan facility). the 2016 credit agreement replaced our previous credit agreement and funds from the 2016 term loan facility were used to repay the outstanding amounts under the previous credit agreement, to partially repay our other outstanding term loans and for general corporate purposes. at october 31, 2019 , we had no outstanding balance under the 2016 term loan facility and $264.0 million outstanding under the 2016 revolving credit facility. $734.8 million was available under the 2016 revolving credit facility. the 2016 term loan facility was repaid using funds borrowed under the 2017 term loan agreement. the 2016 revolving credit facility will mature on march 1, 2021. see note 4. debt of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. october 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 short-term debt $ 563.7 $ 37.1 long-term debt 1,264.2 1,989.2 less: unamortized debt issuance cost (1.6 ) (3.5 ) total $ 1,826.3 $ 2,022.8 at october 31, 2019 , the scheduled maturities of our variable rate long-term debt obligations, their weighted average interest rates: expected maturity date fiscal year ($ in millions) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total fair value long-term debt: variable interest rate $ $ 264.2 $ $ 1,000.0 $ $ $ 1,264.2 $1,264.2 average interest rate 3.2 % 3.2 % as the table incorporates only those exposures that existed as of october 31, 2019 , it does not consider those exposures or positions which could arise after that date. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on interest rates, the exposures that arise during the period and our hedging strategies at that time. as of october 31, 2019 , we had no outstanding interest rate swaps. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1% or 100 basis points, annual interest expense would increase or decrease by approximately $19.6 million based on average debt outstanding for fiscal 2019. for further information about our debt, see item 1a. risk factors - we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. and note 1. accounting policies and note 4. debt of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 70 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiariesrisk factors 27 risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business our results of operations have been adversely affected, and our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially adversely affected in the future, by the global covid-19 pandemic and related economic disruptions. the current global pandemic caused by the spread of the novel strain of coronavirus referred to as covid-19 has negatively impacted business and healthcare activity globally and has created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption within the markets in which we operate. the pandemic has adversely affected and is likely to further adversely affect nearly all aspects of our business and markets, including our sales, operations, cash flow and workforce and the operations of our customers, suppliers, vendors and business partners. among other things, many optical practitioners and retailers, hospitals, medical offices and fertility clinics closed their facilities, restricted access, or delayed or canceled patient visits, exams and elective medical procedures in response to the pandemic, and many customers that have reopened are experiencing reduced patient visits, which has resulted in reduced demand for and sales of our products and services. if the covid-19 pandemic continues and conditions worsen, our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially adversely affected in numerous ways, including, but not limited to, decreased net sales from sales of our products and services due to customer facility closures, restricted access and reduced patient visits, exams and elective medical procedures; disruption in the manufacture and distribution of our products, including increased manufacturing and distribution costs, reduced manufacturing capacity and inadequate inventory levels; increased risk of inventory that may expire; write-offs or obsolescence of inventory, equipment or other assets; disruptions to our raw material and product suppliers and broader supply chain and distribution systems; delays in our clinical trials which could negatively impact our new product pipeline milestones and regulatory clearances and approvals; extended delays in or defaults on payments of outstanding receivables; insolvency of customers, suppliers, vendors and business partners; an inability to access lending, capital markets and other sources of liquidity when needed on reasonable terms or at all; an inability to comply with financial covenants in our debt agreements; and future restructuring, impairment and other charges. the extent to which the covid-19 pandemic and related economic disruptions impact our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain, difficult to predict and largely outside of our control, including, but not limited to, the continued spread, duration and severity of the pandemic outbreak; the occurrence, spread, duration and severity of any subsequent wave or waves of outbreaks; the impact on our customers and suppliers; the actions taken by the u.s. and foreign governments to contain the pandemic, address its impact or respond to the reduction in global and local economic activity; the occurrence, duration and severity of a global, regional or national recession, depression or other sustained adverse market event; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. even after the covid-19 pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience materially adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. 27 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations are conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america, latin america and europe. over half of our net sales for the fiscal years ended october 31, 2020 and 2019, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: we may find it difficult to manage the effects of the ongoing covid-19 pandemic on our ability to operate internationally and for our employees to travel internationally; we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan and china because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; we may find it difficult to grow in emerging markets such as china, india, russia, brazil and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped and/or unfamiliar distribution channels, regulatory restrictions and changes, and business knowledge of these new markets; tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions, including the tariffs enacted by the u.s. government on various imports from china and by the chinese government on certain u.s. goods, the scope and duration of which remain uncertain; we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of united states and foreign legal, compliance and regulatory requirements such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the united kingdom bribery act, international data security and privacy laws, mdr and ivdr; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce and other nations' import-export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; natural disasters, pandemics such as covid-19, war, terrorism, labor disruptions and international conflicts may cause significant economic disruption and political and social instability, resulting in decreased demand for our products, adversely affecting our manufacturing and distribution capabilities, or causing interruptions in our supply chain; foreign governments may adopt regulations, including those similar to mdr and ivdr or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities, including but not limited to increased enforcement of potentially conflicting and ambiguous anti-bribery laws; we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; and we may be subject to unforeseen economic or political events in certain countries that may have an impact on our customers' ability or preferences to buy our products. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. 28 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business. over the last few years in the united states and globally, market and economic conditions have been challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth. foreign countries, in particular the euro zone, have experienced recessionary pressures and face continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions and geopolitical issues. concerns about the euro zone's sovereign debt in recent years have caused uncertainty and disruption in the financial markets globally. while the global financial markets have showed general signs of improvement, uncertainty remains. any negative impact on economic conditions and international markets, continued volatility or deterioration in the debt and equity capital markets, inflation, deflation or other adverse economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. it may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. global markets continued to face threats and uncertainty during fiscal 2020. uncertain economic and financial market conditions may also adversely affect the financial condition of our customers, suppliers and other business partners. if our customers' financial conditions are adversely affected, customers may reduce their purchases of our products or we may not be able to collect accounts receivable, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations or financial results. coopervision and coopersurgical are encountering consolidation in their customer bases and emergence of more centralized large customer groups and retail chains. due to this trend, global and regional key account customers now represent a larger proportion or concentration of our business and any disruption to these relationships may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. the results of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the eu may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. we are a multinational company headquartered in the united states with worldwide operations, with significant business operations in europe, including in the uk. in june 2016, a majority of voters in the uk elected to withdraw from the european union in a national referendum (brexit). in march 2017, the government of the uk formally gave notice of its intent to withdraw from the eu. on january 31, 2020, the uk ceased to be a member state of the eu. eu law applicable to the uk continues to apply to and in the uk for the duration of a transition period which is presently scheduled to expire on december 31, 2020 (the transition period). during the transition period, the eu and the uk will negotiate the terms of their future relationship. there is no assurance that such negotiations will be successful and it is uncertain what, if any, laws similar to those of the eu will continue to apply in and to the uk following the expiration of the transition period. since a significant proportion of the uk's regulatory framework is derived from eu directives and regulations, eu law ceasing to apply in and to the uk following the expiration of the transition period could materially impact the regulatory regime with respect to the movement and approval of our products to and from the uk and eu. we could face new regulatory costs and challenges, a negative impact on the movement of goods and materials in our supply chain, and increased tariffs and duties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. until expiration of the transition period and the future relationship between the eu and the uk is established, it is difficult to anticipate brexit's potential impact. 29 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries acquisitions that we have made and may make in the future involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at coopersurgical and at coopervision, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. coopervision acquired a privately-held u.s contact lens manufacturer focusing on ortho-k lenses in fiscal 2020 and a privately-held scleral lens company in fiscal 2019. coopersurgical acquired a privately-held distributor of ivf medical devices and systems in fiscal 2020 and a privately-held u.s. medical device company in fiscal 2019. risks we could face with respect to these acquisitions include: failure to successfully obtain the anticipated revenues, margins and earnings benefits; difficulties in, and expenses related to, the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures, including but not limited to third party compliance and due diligence; increased leverage and the risk of lack of access to available financing, including financing for the acquisition or refinancing of debt owed by us on a timely basis and on reasonable terms; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns; risks of the acquired company's noncompliance with applicable laws or regulations; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities, contingent liabilities or indemnification obligations of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations or terminate our employees; application of and compliance with new and unfamiliar regulatory frameworks such as pharmaceutical regulation applicable to our paragard iud; failure to successfully obtain or maintain reimbursements under the third-party payor plans, including but not limited to governmental programs, due to complex reporting and payment obligations; a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations and the risk that we are required to record significant adjustments to the preliminary fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed within the measurement period. we face risks associated with disruption of our manufacturing and distribution operations including possible failure to develop necessary manufacturing processes, or constrained, idle or excess capacity could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing or distribution facilities, whether due to the effects of the covid-19 pandemic and related work stoppages, technical or labor difficulties, integration difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous 30 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries materials or other events), enforcement action by the fda or other regulatory body if we are found to be in non-compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. while we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete. conversely, constrained, excess or idle capacity, which could result from acquisitions, unexpected demand, inaccurate sales forecasting or unexpected manufacturing efficiencies, could significantly impact our profitability, capital investments, customer service levels and near-term financial condition. coopervision manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent the majority of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in costa rica, hungary, puerto rico, the united kingdom and the united states, with other smaller locations also existing in multiple locations around the world. coopersurgical manufactures the majority of its products in costa rica, the united kingdom and the united states, with other smaller locations also existing in multiple locations around the world. in november 2017, coopersurgical purchased a manufacturing facility in costa rica to consolidate a portion of global manufacturing. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we generally have not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. coopervision distributes products out of belgium, the united kingdom and the united states and various smaller international distribution facilities. coopersurgical's products are primarily distributed out of its facilities in united states and the netherlands. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, challenges related to system implementation, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. cybersecurity threats continue to increase in frequency and sophistication; a successful cybersecurity attack could interrupt or disrupt our information technology systems, or those of our third party service providers, or cause the loss of confidential or protected data which could disrupt our business, force us to incur excessive costs or cause reputational harm. security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking attacks have become more prevalent across industries and may occur on our systems or those of our third-party service providers or partners. the size and complexity of our information systems make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. such attacks are increasing in their frequency, levels of persistence, levels of sophistication and intensity, and are being conducted by sophisticated and organized groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, we may face increased cybersecurity risks due to our reliance on internet technology and the number of our employees who are working remotely, which may create additional opportunities for cybercriminals to exploit vulnerabilities. in addition to unauthorized access to or acquisition of personal data, confidential information, intellectual property or other sensitive information, such attacks could include the deployment of harmful malware and ransomware, and may use a variety of methods, including denial-of-service attacks, social engineering and other means, to attain such unauthorized access or acquisition or otherwise affect service reliability and threaten the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information. like many other companies, we experience attempted cybersecurity actions 31 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries on a frequent basis, and the frequency of such attempts could increase in the future. while we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent or quickly identify service interruptions or security breaches. the techniques used by cyber criminals change frequently, may not be recognized until launched and can originate from a wide variety of sources, including outside groups such as external service providers, organized crime affiliates, terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments or agencies. we cannot assure you that our data protection efforts and our investment in information technology will prevent significant breakdowns, data leakages or breaches in our systems or those of our third-party services providers or partners. any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. we maintain cyber liability insurance; however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. we manage our businesses utilizing complex integrated software and hardware information technology operating systems that are regularly maintained and upgraded; an interruption or disruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to incur excessive costs. we utilize complex integrated software and hardware operating systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units and we have a continuous improvement strategy in place to keep our systems and overarching technology stable and in line with business needs and growth. regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are typical and expected. we employ controlled change management methodologies to plan, test and execute all such system upgrades and improvements, and we believe that we assign adequate staffing and other resources to projects to ensure successful implementation. however, we cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. we cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems. we are in the midst of a multiyear process of implementing new enterprise resource planning (erp) systems at coopervision and coopersurgical. implementing a new erp system is not only costly but complex and difficult. implementing a new erp system can negatively affect not only financial accounting and reporting processes but also external commercial activities such as order receipt and product delivery. there can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our new erp system or that we will avoid these and other negative impacts from our implementation efforts. we rely on independent suppliers in our supply chain for raw materials, packaging materials and components, mechanical equipment and some finished goods; we could experience inventory shortages if any of these suppliers encounter a manufacturing or distribution disruption our businesses utilize various chemicals, packaging materials, components, parts and raw materials which are generally available from more than one source. however, in certain instances we acquire components and materials from sole or primary suppliers to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens, certain medical devices and ivf products. we also source mechanical equipment and in certain instances finished goods from oem suppliers. supply of these goods, items and materials is protected by contractual agreements, availability of alternative suppliers and/or safety stocks. however, if current suppliers fail to supply sufficient goods, items or materials to us on a timely basis, or at all for any reason, we could experience inventory shortages and disruption in our supply of products. for example, among other situations, some of the primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, including myday, biofinity, avaira and clariti, are supplied by few sole suppliers, and the failure of a key or sole supplier to timely supply sufficient items and materials necessary for the manufacture of our silicone hydrogel contact lenses could in turn disrupt our supply of those lenses to the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries if we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also may seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. we also cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. both coopervision and coopersurgical also rely on proprietary technology which is unpatented. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. we rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. to maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. we also might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. the laws of foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future may not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united 33 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products or processes could be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others. our competitors in both the united states and foreign countries, some of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, as well as other third parties, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. in the contact lens industry, coopervision, its competitors and other third parties hold patents covering contact lens designs, business methods, processes and materials. claims that our products, business methods or processes infringe upon the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales of products incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industries. for example, coopervision in the past faced significant patent litigation over its silicone hydrogel contact lens products. third parties have made, and may make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology. any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or re-engineer our products, if feasible; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims or legal claims relating to our service offerings, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. additionally, we face the inherent risk of exposure to legal claims, including negligence, relating to our provision of certain service offerings, including our genetic testing services and their accuracy. consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product or service that is the subject of a claim or recall or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier 34 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, legal claims relating to our service offerings, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing products, in the future. if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them, assuming they receive necessary regulatory approvals, will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. the development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: acceptance of our products by eye care and health care practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory and legislative requirements; adequate coverage and reimbursement by third party payors; the earlier release of competitive products, such as new silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. we operate in the highly competitive health care industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens business, coopervision faces intense competition from competitors' products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our largest competitors in the contact lens business, johnson &amp; johnson vision care, inc., alcon inc. and bausch health companies inc. may have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and/or larger manufacturing volumes than coopervision. they offer competitive products and differentiated materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. the market for contact lenses is intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to introduce new products successfully, on a timely basis in the americas, emea and asia pacific, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, coopervision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, for example with increased product entries from asia pacific contact lens manufacturers, or that our competitors' newer contact lens products will not successfully erode coopervision's contact lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 35 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries the contact lens industry also continues to evolve with respect to the introduction of new distribution and fulfillment models and service technologies which may conflict with coopervision's strategy or interfere with its customers' relationships and loyalty. for example, more contact lenses are being fulfilled directly to the consumer by manufacturers and wholesalers via online platforms, telemedicine is gaining popularity and more vision correction prescriptions are being provided through online refractive exams rather than in office by an eye care practitioner. coopervision's failure to adapt to the threats posed by these new and emerging distribution models and internet driven services may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the women's health market, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, access to local markets based on regulatory clearances, price and effective communication of product information to physicians, hospitals, patients and ivf clinics. coopersurgical competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche areas, some of which have substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care, family and women's health care, and diagnostics testing industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, and genetic testing technology may limit demand for our products and services. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. if these new advances provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence if we are unable to develop new products or gain regulatory approvals or if our competitors introduce new products. product innovations are important in the contact lens market in which coopervision competes and in the areas of the health care industry in which coopersurgical competes. coopervision, both internally and externally with third parties, invests in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. while much of coopervision's research and development activities are performed internally, it also uses external research and development investment in collaborations and joint development with third parties. coopersurgical has historically purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. coopersurgical also has invested in expanding the internal research and development function with the goal of organic growth and to complement our acquisitions strategy. research and development time commitments, higher feasibility risk with longer term projects, greater dependence on, and reduced control over, third party deliverables, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies, such as contact lenses with anti-microbial or anti-allergenic features, or smart contact lenses which incorporate electronics that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. competitors may also introduce new uses for contact lenses, such as for drug delivery or the control of myopia. failure to develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 36 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of united states federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. we continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. these regulations include, for example, regulations enacted in the european union such as the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemical substances, which requires the registration of and regulates use of certain chemicals, the restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive, which regulates the use of certain hazardous substances in certain products our coopersurgical division manufactures. these and similar legislation that has been or is in the process of being enacted in japan, china and various states of the u.s. may require us to re-design certain products to ensure compliance with the applicable. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit, develop and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, develop and retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing, engineering and scientific personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. we also have the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have anti-takeover effects. risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products and services. the costs of complying with the requirements of federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to the privacy and security of personal information, including health related information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. numerous state and federal laws and regulations, govern the collection, dissemination, use, privacy, confidentiality, security, availability and integrity of individually identifiable information, including protected health information (phi). for example, hipaa establishes national privacy and security standards for protection of phi by covered entities, such as our genetics testing subsidiaries, and the 37 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries business associates with whom such entities contract for services, including another one of our subsidiaries, eye care prime llc, which offers value-added software solutions for eye care professionals. hipaa requires both covered entities and business associates to develop and maintain policies and procedures for phi that is used or disclosed, and to adopt administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect phi. when we are acting as a business associate, our clients that are covered entities are mandated by hipaa to enter into written agreements with us - known as business associate agreements - that require us to safeguard phi in accordance with hipaa. our genetics testing subsidiaries are likewise required to enter into business associate agreements with any of their business associates. mandatory penalties for hipaa violations can be significant. a single breach incident can result in violations of multiple standards. if a person knowingly or intentionally obtains or discloses phi in violation of hipaa requirements, criminal penalties may also be imposed. we maintain safeguards that we believe are reasonable and appropriate to protect the privacy and security of phi and other personally identifiable information consistent with applicable law and our contractual obligations; however, our systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, viruses, hackers, and other potential sources of security breaches. in addition, we may not be able to prevent incidences of inappropriate use or unauthorized access to phi by our employees or contractors. any such breaches could result in exposure to liability under federal and state laws and/or under our contractual arrangements and could adversely impact our business. even when hipaa does not apply, according to the ftc, violating consumers' privacy rights or failing to take appropriate steps to keep consumers' personal information secure may constitute unfair acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of section 5(a) of the federal trade commission act. the ftc expects a company's data security measures to be reasonable and appropriate in light of the sensitivity and volume of consumer information it holds, the size and complexity of its business, and the cost of available tools to improve security and reduce vulnerabilities. further, california enacted the ccpa, on june 28, 2018, which went into effect on january 1, 2020. the ccpa gives california residents expanded rights to access and delete their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing, and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used. the ccpa provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that is expected to increase data breach litigation. although there are limited exemptions for health-related information, including clinical trial data, the ccpa may increase our compliance costs and potential liability. some observers have noted that the ccpa could mark the beginning of a trend toward more stringent privacy legislation in the united states, which could increase our potential liability and adversely affect our business. similar laws have been proposed in other states and at the federal level, and if passed, such laws may have potentially conflicting requirements that would make compliance challenging. we are also subject to laws and regulations in countries other than united states covering data privacy and the protection of health-related and other personal information. eu and eea member states and other jurisdictions have adopted data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. for example, the gdpr went into effect on may 25, 2018, and imposes stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data of individuals within the eea and the united kingdom, including, for example, expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information, increased requirements pertaining to health data and pseudonymized (i.e., key-coded) data, mandatory data breach notification requirements, handling data subject access requests and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. in addition, member states of the eea may impose further obligations relating to the processing of genetic, biometric or health data, which could further add to our compliance costs and limit how we process this information. in addition, the gdpr increases the 38 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries scrutiny of transfers of personal data from clinical trial sites located in the eea to the united states and other jurisdictions that the european commission does not recognize as having adequate data protection laws; in july 2020, the court of justice of the european union limited how organizations could lawfully transfer personal data from the eea to the united states by invalidating the eu-us privacy shield and imposing further restrictions on use of the standard contractual clauses, which could increase our costs and our ability to efficiently process personal data from the eea. compliance with u.s. and foreign privacy and security laws, rules and regulations could require us to take on more onerous obligations in our contracts, require us to engage in costly compliance exercises, restrict our ability to collect, use and disclose data, or in some cases, impact our or our partners' or suppliers' ability to operate in certain jurisdictions. each of these constantly evolving laws can be subject to varying interpretations. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with privacy or security laws, policies, legal obligations or industry standards or any security incident that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information may result in governmental enforcement actions and investigations including by european data protection authorities, fines and penalties, litigation and/or adverse publicity, including by consumer advocacy groups, and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. for example, companies that must comply with the gdpr face increased compliance obligations and risk, including more robust regulatory enforcement of data protection requirements and potential fines for noncompliance of up to 20 million or 4% of the annual global revenues of the noncompliant company, whichever is greater. additionally, following the united kingdom's withdrawal from the eea and the eu, and the expiry of the transition period, companies will have to comply with the gdpr and the gdpr as incorporated into the united kingdom national law, the latter regime having the ability to separately fine up to the greater of 17.5 million or 4% of global turnover. the relationship between the united kingdom and the eu in relation to certain aspects of data protection law remains unclear, for example around how data can lawfully be transferred between each jurisdiction, which exposes us to further compliance risk. such failures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. if the third parties we work with violate applicable laws, contractual obligations or suffer a security breach, such violations may also put us in breach of our obligations under privacy laws and regulations and/or could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business. changes in legislation and government regulation of the health care industry both in the united states and internationally, as well as third-party payors' efforts to control the costs of health care could materially adversely affect our business. the aca made extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the united states. among the provisions of the aca, of greatest importance to the medical device industry and pharmaceutical industry are the following: establishment of the patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models; creation of the independent payment advisory board which has authority to recommend certain changes to reduce medicare spending and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if congress doesn't act on the recommendations; establishment of a center for medicare innovation at cms to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower medicare and medicaid spending; and 39 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the medicaid drug rebate program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for most branded and generic drugs, respectively. these measures could result in decreased net revenues or increased expenses from our fertility, office and surgical products and decrease potential returns from our development efforts. there have been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the aca, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to the aca in the future. additionally, recent reform proposals have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to tax and trade policies, tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the united states and other countries. major developments in tax policy or trade relations could have a material effect on our balance sheet and results of operations. other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the affordable care act was enacted. the budget control act of 2011, among other things, included aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments, will remain in effect until 2030, with the temporary suspension from may 1, 2020 through december 31, 2020, unless additional action is taken by congress. the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. in addition, the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015, among other things, repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments began in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. we expect that additional state and federal health care reform measures will be adopted in the future, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for health care products and services, which could adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products, or result in additional pricing pressures. also, any adoption of health care reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. in addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the united states or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of health care. these cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering health care. although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may enroll as in-network providers and suppliers with certain payors. although, becoming an in-network provider or enrolling as a supplier means that we have agreed with these payors to provide certain of our tests at negotiated rates, it does not obligate any physicians to order our tests or guarantee that we will receive reimbursement for our tests from these or any other payors at adequate levels. thus, these payor relationships, or any similar relationships we may establish in the future, may not result in acceptable levels of reimbursement for our tests or meaningful increases in our physician customer base. we cannot predict whether, under what circumstances, or at what payment levels payors will cover and reimburse for our tests. if we fail to establish and maintain broad coverage and reimbursement for our tests, our ability to generate increased revenue and grow our test volume and customer base could be limited and our future prospects and our business could suffer. 40 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries on april 5, 2017, the european parliament passed the medical devices regulation, which repeals and replaces the eu medical devices directive. unlike directives, which must be implemented into the national laws of the european economic area (eea) member states, the regulations would be directly applicable (i.e., without the need for adoption of eea member state laws implementing them) in all eea member states and are intended to eliminate current differences in the regulation of medical devices among eea member states. the medical devices regulation, among other things, is intended to establish a uniform, transparent, predictable and sustainable regulatory framework across the eea for medical devices and in vitro diagnostic devices and ensure a high level of safety and health while supporting innovation. mdr was to become applicable in may 2020, but on april 23, 2020, to take the pressure off eea national authorities, notified bodies, manufacturers and other actors so they can focus fully on urgent priorities related to the covid 19 pandemic, the european council and parliament adopted regulation 2020/561, postponing the date of application of the medical devices regulation by one year (to may 2021). the ivdr will become applicable in may 2022. once applicable, the new regulations will, among other things: strengthen the rules on placing devices on the market and reinforce surveillance once they are available; establish explicit provisions on manufacturers' responsibilities for the follow-up of the quality, performance and safety of devices placed on the market; improve the traceability of medical devices throughout the supply chain to the end-user or patient through a unique identification number; set up a central database to provide patients, healthcare professionals and the public with comprehensive information on products available in the eu; and strengthen rules for the assessment of certain high-risk devices, such as implants, which may have to undergo an additional check by experts before they are placed on the market. these modifications may have an impact on the way we conduct our business in the eea and an adverse impact on our overall business operations and financial results. laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, physician self-referral false claims and physician payment transparency laws and regulations. these laws may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we conduct our operations, including our commercial laboratory operations and how we research, market, sell and distribute any products for which we obtain marketing approval. such laws include: the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons or entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing any remuneration (including any kickback, bribe or certain rebates), directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, in return for, either the referral of an individual or the purchase, lease, or order, or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease, or order of any good, facility, item or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program such as medicare and medicaid. a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal anti- kickback statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation; 41 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries the federal physician self-referral prohibitions, commonly known as the stark law, which generally prohibit entities from billing a patient or the medicare or medicaid programs for certain designated health services, including clinical laboratory services, when the physician ordering the service, or any member of such physician's immediate family, has a financial interest, such as an ownership or investment interest in or compensation arrangement with us, unless the arrangement meets an exception to the prohibition. these prohibitions apply regardless of any intent by the parties to induce or reward referrals or the reasons for the financial relationship and the referral; the federal false claims laws, including the civil false claims act, and civil monetary penalties laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment or approval that are false or fraudulent, knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim, or from knowingly making or causing to be made a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government. in addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti- kickback statute of stark law constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil false claims act; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa), which imposes criminal and civil liability for, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, or knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement, in connection with the delivery of, or payment for, healthcare benefits, items or services. similar to the federal anti-kickback statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation; the federal physician payments sunshine act, which requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under medicare, medicaid or the children's health insurance program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the cms, information related to payments and other transfers of value made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by such healthcare professionals and their immediate family members. beginning in 2022, applicable manufacturers also will be required to report such information regarding payments and transfers of value provided during the previous year to physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified nurse anesthetists and certified nurse-midwives; and analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers and self-pay patients; some state laws require biotechnology companies to comply with the industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government and may require drug and device manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; some state laws that require biotechnology companies to report information on the pricing of certain drug products; and some state and local laws require the registration of sales representatives. in addition, federal government price reporting laws, among other things, require us to calculate and report complex pricing metrics to government programs, where such reported prices may be used in the calculation of reimbursement and/or discounts on our marketed drugs. participation in these programs and 42 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries compliance with the applicable requirements may subject us to potentially significant discounts on our products, increased infrastructure costs and potentially limit our ability to offer certain marketplace discounts. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, changes in these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to further change our business practices or subject our existing business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. legislative or regulatory reforms in the united states or the eu may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for our products or to manufacture, market or distribute our products after clearance or approval is obtained. from time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulation of medical devices. in addition, the fda may change its clearance and approval policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, or take other actions, which may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our future products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently cleared products on a timely basis. over the last several years, the fda has proposed reforms to its 510(k) clearance process, and such proposals could include increased requirements for clinical data and a longer review period, or could make it more difficult for manufacturers to utilize the 510(k) clearance process for their products. in addition, fda regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the fda in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. any new statutes, regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of any future products or make it more difficult to obtain clearance or approval for, manufacture, market or distribute our products. we cannot determine what effect changes in regulations, statutes, legal interpretation or policies, when and if promulgated, enacted or adopted may have on our business in the future. such changes could, among other things, require additional testing prior to obtaining clearance or approval; changes to manufacturing methods; recall, replacement or discontinuance of our products; or additional record keeping. our medical device products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda's qsr regulations, which require manufacturers to follow, among other things, design, testing, production, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. medical device 43 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries manufacturers, such as coopervision and coopersurgical, may, under their own initiative, recall a product if a reasonable possibility of serious injury or any material deficiency in a device is found, or withdraw a product to improve device performance or for other reasons. the fda requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to the fda within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. recalls of any of our products may divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a recall could harm our reputation with customers and consumers which could reduce the sales of our products. in addition, the fda or other foreign governmental agencies may implement enforcement actions in connection with a recall which could impair our product offerings and be harmful to our business and financial results. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, our products could be subject to recall, and sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda's cgmp for medical devices, known as the qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to comply with qsr requirements and other applicable domestic or international regulatory requirements or to respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, warning letters, significant fines, injunctions, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of medical device and pharmaceutical design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling (including, for example, unique device identifier regulations), storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion, advertising and distribution, as well as product import and export. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, fines, warning letters, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. our medical devices and pharmaceutical products require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices and drug products may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining, renewing and maintaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such clearances and approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, and significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements may occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda and authorities in foreign jurisdictions may change their policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products, increase the cost of compliance, impose additional 44 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries regulatory requirements on us, or otherwise impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. modifications and enhancements to medical devices also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer's decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for a modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. any failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may significantly and adversely affect our ability to commercialize and generate revenue from our product candidates. if regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is withdrawn, the value of our company and our operating results may be adversely affected. the fda's and other regulatory authorities' policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. if we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. we also cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative or executive action, either in the united states or abroad. development and marketing of our products are subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, the reporting of certain payments to health care practitioners in certain markets (for example, the french sunshine act of 2013), duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. however, our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. increased regulatory scrutiny of genetic testing may adversely affect our business through increased costs and risks associated with gaining marketing approvals and potential decreased demand for our genetic testing services. we offer certain genetic testing services to help identify the likelihood of pregnancy as well as identify possible disorders or diseases of a child prior to birth. regulatory and legislative proposals addressing oversight of genetic testing have been introduced in the united states, and we expect that new proposals 45 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries will be introduced from time to time both in the united states and in foreign countries in the future. although the fda has statutory authority to assure that medical devices, including ivds, are safe and effective for their intended uses, the fda has historically exercised its enforcement discretion and not enforced applicable provisions of the fdca and regulations with respect to laboratory developed tests (ldts). we believe our tests fall within the definition of an ldt. as a result, we believe our tests are not currently subject to the fda's enforcement of its medical device regulations and the applicable fdca provisions. however, if there are changes in the fda's policy, or if the fda disagrees that our marketed tests are ldts or that we are marketing our tests outside the scope of the fda's current policy of enforcement discretion, we may become subject to extensive regulatory requirements and may be required to stop selling our existing tests or launching any other tests we may develop and to conduct additional clinical trials or take other actions prior to continuing to market our tests. this could significantly increase the costs and expenses of conducting, or otherwise harm, our business. legislative proposals addressing the fda's oversight of ldt have been introduced by congress in the past and new legislative proposals may be introduced from time to time in the future. the likelihood that congress will pass such legislation and the extent to which such legislation may affect the fda's ability to enforce its medical device regulations with respect to certain ldt is difficult to predict at this time. if the fda ultimately begins to enforce its medical device requirements with respect to ldt, our genetic tests may be subject to additional regulatory requirements imposed by the fda, the nature and extent of which would depend upon applicable final guidance or regulation by the fda or instruction by congress. if the fda imposes significant changes to the regulation of ldt it could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. any new fda enforcement policies affecting ldt or new legislation, regulations such as the eu ivdr regulation may result in increased regulatory burdens on our ability to continue marketing our genetic products and to develop and introduce new products in the future, which could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state, local and foreign laboratory licensing requirements, we could lose the ability to perform our genetic tests or experience disruptions to our business. we are subject to the clinical laboratory improvement amendments of 1988 (clia), uk human fertilization &amp; embryology association (hfea) regulating ivf, a federal law regulating clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. our clinical laboratories must be certified under clia and iso 15189 in order for us to perform testing on human specimens. in addition, our proprietary tests must also be recognized as part of our accredited programs under clia so that we can offer them in our laboratory. clia is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the united states by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. the law also requires us to maintain a state laboratory license to conduct testing in that state. our laboratories are located in japan, the united kingdom and united states, and we must maintain the requisite licenses in each jurisdiction. any sanction imposed under clia, its implementing regulations, or state or foreign laws or regulations governing licensure, or our failure to renew a clia certificate, a state license or accreditation, could have a material and adverse effect on our diagnostic testing business, operating results and financial condition. the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms) also has the authority to impose a wide range of sanctions, including revocation of the clia certification along with a bar on the ownership or operation of a clia-certified laboratory by any owners or operators of the deficient laboratory. if we were to lose our clia certification or required state licensure, we would not be able to operate our clinical laboratory 46 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries and conduct our tests, in full or in particular states, which would adversely impact our diagnostic testing business, operating results, and financial condition. pricing pressure from our competitors, customers and changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement may adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our operating results. competition in our industry has increased as a result of new market entrants, new technologies and as more established companies have intensified competitive pricing pressure. as a result of these competitive forces, we believe there will continue to be pricing pressure in the future. because our coopersurgical products are generally purchased by hospitals and surgical centers, ob/gyn medical offices and fertility clinics, and billed to various third-party payors, changes in the purchasing behavior of such customers or the amount such payors are willing to reimburse our customers for procedures using our products, including as a result of healthcare reform initiatives, could create additional pricing pressure on us. in addition to these competitive forces, we continue to see pricing pressure as our customers introduce new pricing structures into their contracts and agreements, including fixed price formulas, capitated pricing and structured pricing intended to contain healthcare costs. such trends may adversely affect demand for our products and may drive down the prices we are able to charge for our products, both of which would negatively affect our operating results. disruptions at the fda and other government agencies caused by funding shortages or global health concerns could hinder their ability to hire, retain or deploy key leadership and other personnel, or otherwise prevent new or modified products from being developed, cleared or approved or commercialized in a timely manner or at all, which could negatively impact our business. the ability of the fda to review and clear or approve new products can be affected by a variety of factors, including government budget and funding levels, statutory, regulatory, and policy changes, the fda's ability to hire and retain key personnel and accept the payment of user fees, and other events that may otherwise affect the fda's ability to perform routine functions. average review times at the fda have fluctuated in recent years as a result. in addition, government funding of other government agencies that fund research and development activities is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. disruptions at the fda and other agencies may also slow the time necessary for new drugs and medical devices or modifications to cleared or approved drugs and medical devices to be reviewed and/or approved by necessary government agencies, which would adversely affect our business. for example, over the last several years, including for 35 days beginning on december 22, 2018, the u.s. government has shut down several times and certain regulatory agencies, such as the fda, have had to furlough critical fda employees and stop critical activities. separately, in response to the covid-19 pandemic, on march 10, 2020 the fda announced its intention to postpone most inspections of foreign manufacturing facilities, and on march 18, 2020, the fda temporarily postponed routine surveillance inspections of domestic manufacturing facilities. subsequently, on july 10, 2020, the fda announced its intention to resume certain on-site inspections of domestic manufacturing facilities subject to a risk-based prioritization system. the fda intends to use this risk-based assessment system to identify the categories of regulatory activity that can occur within a given geographic area, ranging from mission critical inspections to resumption of all regulatory activities. regulatory authorities outside the united states may adopt similar restrictions or other policy measures in response to the covid-19 pandemic. if a prolonged government shutdown occurs, or if global health concerns continue to prevent the fda or other regulatory authorities from conducting their regular inspections, reviews, or other regulatory activities, it could significantly impact the ability of the fda or other regulatory authorities to timely review and process our regulatory submissions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 47 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries ethical, legal and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our tests. genetic testing has raised ethical, legal and social issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. government authorities could, for social or other purposes, limit or regulate the use of genetic information or genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, these concerns may lead patients to refuse to use, or physicians to be reluctant to order, genetic tests even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal and social concerns may limit market acceptance and adoption of our tests or reduce the potential markets for our tests, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks relating to tax increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. determination of the company's effective tax rate and evaluation of its tax positions is uncertain with rapidly changing enactment, interpretation and enforcement of tax regulations by taxing authorities globally. when tax matters arise, several years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. unfavorable resolution of any tax matter in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could increase the effective tax rate, which would have an adverse effect on the company's operating results. any resolution of a tax matter may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. for instance, in fiscal 2019, we were required to pay additional taxes resulting from an inquiry in the united kingdom related to the transfer out of the country of certain intellectual property rights in connection with a 2014 acquisition. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. we are also subject to the examination of our tax filings by domestic and foreign tax authorities and the outcome of these examinations could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various jurisdictions outside of the united states. our effective tax rate could fluctuate due to changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates. our tax expense could also be impacted by changes in non-deductible expenses, changes in excess tax benefits of stock-based compensation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and our ability to utilize them, the applicability of withholding taxes and effects from acquisitions. we are subject to tax examinations in multiple jurisdictions. while we regularly evaluate new information that may change our judgment resulting in recognition, derecognition or change in measurement of a tax position taken, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. our tax provision could also be impacted by changes in accounting principles, and changes in u.s. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. in addition, government agencies in non-u.s. jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business and the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd), have recently focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. one example is in the area of base erosion and profit shifting, where profits are claimed to be earned for tax purposes in low-tax jurisdictions, or payments are made 48 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. the oecd has released several components of its comprehensive plan to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting. as a result, the tax laws in the u.s. and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change and any such change could be materially and adversely affect our business. we may also be subject to additional tax liabilities and penalties due to changes in non-income based taxes resulting from changes in federal, state or international tax laws, changes in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions, results of tax examinations, settlements or judicial decisions, changes in accounting principles, changes to the business operations, including acquisitions, as well as the evaluation of new information that results in a change to a tax position taken in a prior period. risks relating to interest and foreign exchange rates, debt and equity exchange rate fluctuations and foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen. we are also exposed to the danish krone, swedish krona, australian dollar and canadian dollar among other currencies. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. to the extent we are unable to materially offset non-functional currency flows, exchange rate fluctuations could have a positive or negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings and can make it more difficult for our shareholders to understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-over-period comparative basis. currently we do not enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our net exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our non-functional currency obligations or balances, and although we may enter into these types of agreement in the future, they would not eliminate that risk entirely. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain a desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, from time to time we may use interest rate swap agreements to fix a portion of our variable-rate debt as further described in the note 14 of consolidated financial statements. we may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to manage our risks effectively and, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. the uk's financial conduct authority, which regulates the london interbank offered rate (libor), announced in july 2017 that it will no longer persuade or require banks to submit rates for libor after 2021. we have multiple debt facilities which bear interest at a variable rate based on the eurodollar libor rate in effect from time to time. a change or transition away from libor as a common reference rate in the global financial market could have a material, adverse effect on our business. management continues to monitor the status and discussions regarding libor. we are not yet able to reasonably estimate the expected impact. 49 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; result in greater interest rate risk and volatility; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facilities under certain circumstances, or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase our defined benefit plan costs. we sponsor a defined benefit plan for certain employees in the united states. this defined benefit plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, discount rates and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plan and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plan. a significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 79 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to market risks that relate principally to changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. to the extent reasonable and practical, we may decide to reduce the risk of changing interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations on the underlying exposure by entering into interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, respectively. we do not emphasize such transactions to the same degree as some other companies with international operations. we do not enter into derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. we operate multiple foreign subsidiaries that manufacture and market our products worldwide. as a result, our earnings, cash flow and financial position are exposed to foreign currency risk from foreign currency denominated receivables and payables, sales transactions, capital expenditures and net investment in certain foreign operations. most of our operations outside the united states have their local currency as their functional currency. we are exposed to risks caused by changes in foreign exchange, principally our british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen denominated debt and receivables denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar, and from operations in other foreign currencies. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our debt or receivables obligations, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. at october 31, 2020 , a uniform hypothetical 5% increase or decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the united states dollar would have resulted in a corresponding increase or decrease in approximately $30.9 million in operating income for the fiscal year ended october 31, 2020 . for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors - " our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. and see note 1. accounting policies of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. we are also exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates, as the interest rates on our revolving lines of credit and term loans may vary with the federal funds rate and libor. we may decrease this interest rate risk by hedging a portion of variable rate debt effectively converting it to fixed rate debt for varying periods. on april 6, 2020, we entered into six interest rate swap contracts to hedge variable cash flows associated with libor. the interest rate swap contracts became effective on april 6, 2020 and have maturities of seven years or less with a total notional amount of $1.5 billion. the outstanding contracts as of october 31, 2020 have a total notional amount of $1.4 billion. we believe that we are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk at this time. we did not have any cross-currency swaps or foreign currency forward contracts as of october 31, 2020. on october 16, 2020, we entered into a 364-day, $350.0 million, term loan agreement by and among us, the lenders party thereto and the bank of nova scotia, as administrative agent which matures on october 15, 2021. we used the funds to partially repay outstanding borrowings under the 2020 revolving credit facility (as defined below). at october 31, 2020, we had $350.0 million outstanding under this agreement. the interest rate was 0.93% at october 31, 2020. on april 1, 2020, we entered into a revolving credit and term loan agreement (the 2020 credit agreement), among us, coopervision international holding company, lp, coopersurgical netherlands b.v., coopervision holding kft. the lenders from time to time party thereto, and keybank national association, as administrative agent. the 2020 credit agreement provides for (a) a multicurrency revolving credit facility (the 2020 revolving credit facility) in an aggregate principal amount of $1.29 billion and (b) a term loan facility (the 2020 term loan facility) in an aggregate principal amount of $850.0 million, each of which, unless terminated earlier, mature on april 1, 2025. the 2020 credit agreement replaced our previous credit agreement and funds from the new term loan were used to repay the outstanding amounts under the previous credit agreement, to repay an outstanding term loan, and for general corporate purposes. at october 31, 2020, we had $754.6 million available under the 2020 79 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiaries revolving credit facility and $850.0 million outstanding under the 2020 term loan facility. the interest rate on the 2020 term loan facility was 1.15% at october 31, 2020. on september 27, 2019, we extended the maturity of the 2018 term loan agreement to september 25, 2020 and increased the amount to $500.0 million (as so amended, the 2019 term loan agreement). at maturity, on september 25, 2020, outstanding amounts under the 2019 term loan agreement were fully repaid using borrowings under the 2020 revolving credit facility. the interest rate on the 2020 revolving credit facility was 1.15% at october 31, 2020. see note 5. debt of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. october 31, (in millions) 2020 2019 short-term debt $ 409.4 $ 563.7 long-term debt 1,384.2 1,264.2 less: unamortized debt issuance cost (0.4 ) (1.6 ) total $ 1,793.2 $ 1,826.3 our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on interest rates, the exposures that arise during the period and our hedging strategies at that time. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1% or 100 basis points, annual interest expense would increase or decrease by approximately $10.2 million based on average debt outstanding, after consideration of our interest rate swap contracts, for fiscal 2020. for further information about our debt, see item 1a. risk factors - we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. and note 1. accounting policies and note 5. debt of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 80 the cooper companies, inc. and subsidiariesquantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. the company is exposed to market risks that relate principally to changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. the company's policy is to minimize, to the extent reasonable and practical, its exposure to the impact of changing interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations by entering into interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, respectively. the company does not enter into derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. additional information for this item is incorporated by reference to "derivatives" in note 1 "summary of significant accounting policies" and in note 7 "financial instruments" to the financial statements in the 2003 annual report. long-term debt total debt increased to $185.9 million at october 31, 2003 from $163.6 million at october 31, 2002. we issued $115 million of convertible senior debentures (see caption "convertible senior debentures" in note 6 "debt" in the 2003 annual report, which is incorporated by reference) and the proceeds were used to reduce amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility and for additional funding requirements. october 31, 2003 october 31, 2002 ---------------- ---------------- (in millions) short-term debt $ 20.7 $ 36.3 long-term debt 165.2 127.3 ------ ------ total $185.9 $163.6 ====== ====== 11 as of october 31, 2003, the scheduled maturities of the company's fixed and variable rate long-term debt obligations (excluding capitalized leases), their weighted average interest rates and their estimated fair values were as follows: expected maturity date - fiscal year -------------------------------------------------------------- there- fair 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 after total value ----- ----- ----- ---- ---- ------ ------ ------ ($ in millions) long-term debt: fixed interest rate $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $112.2 $112.2 $138.0 average interest rate 2.625% variable interest rate $19.1 $22.7 $19.0 $9.6 $0.1 $ 0.2 $ 70.7 $ 70.7 average interest rate 2.9% 2.9% 2.9% 2.9% 2.9% 2.9%quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. the company is exposed to market risks that relate principally to changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. the company policy is to minimize, to the extent reasonable and practical, its exposure to the impact of changing interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations by entering into interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, respectively. the company does not enter into derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. additional information for this item is incorporated by reference to derivatives in note 1 summary of significant accounting policies and in note 7 financial instruments of notes to consolidated financial statements included in part ii item 8, financial statements and supplementary data. long-term debt total debt decreased to $165.7 million at october 31, 2004, from $185.9 million at october 31, 2003. long-term debt includes $115 million of convertible senior debentures (see convertible senior debentures in note 6 debt ) issued in fiscal year 2003, and the proceeds were used to reduce amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility and for additional funding requirements. october 31, (in millions) 2004 2003 short-term debt $ 20.9 $ 20.7 long-term debt 144.8 165.2 total $ 165.7 $ 185.9 as of october 31, 2004, the scheduled maturities of the company fixed and variable rate long-term debt obligations (excluding capitalized leases), their weighted average interest rates and their estimated fair values were as follows: expected maturity date fiscal year ($ in millions) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total fair value long-term debt: fixed interest rate $ $ $ $ $ $ 112.3 $ 112.3 $ 194.0 average interest rate 2.6 % variable interest rate $ 19.7 $ 22.4 $ 9.6 $ 0.1 $ 0.1 $ 0.1 $ 52.0 $ 52.0 average interest rate 3.4 % 3.5 % 4.9 % 4.9 % 4.9 % 4.9 % 34 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock or convertible debentures could decline. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive healthcare industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens segment, cvi faces intense competition from competitors products, including newer silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our major competitors in the contact lens business have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and larger manufacturing volumes than cvi. our major competitors in the specialty contact lens business offer competitive products, newer materials plus a variety of other eyecare products, including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. moreover, newer silicone hydrogel lenses may gain market acceptance in the specialty lens business before we are able to manufacture in volume and market our own competitive silicone hydrogel specialty products, which could erode our market share and margins. the market for our non-specialty, commodity contact lenses is also intensely competitive and is characterized by declining prices for many older product lines and growing demand for newer silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to introduce our own silicone hydrogel products on a timely basis and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capacity. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, cvi also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, or that a successful entry into cvi higher-margin specialty lens segments by a larger competitor would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in the women healthcare segment, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians and hospitals. coopersurgical competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche markets, some of which have substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. 17 table of contents product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence. product innovations are important in the contact lens business in which cvi competes and in the niche areas of the healthcare industry in which csi competes. we have not historically allocated substantial resources to new product development, but rather have purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. with the acquisition of ocular, we have begun to invest more in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel based contact lenses. although our focus is on products that will be marketable immediately or in the short to medium term rather than on funding longer-term, higher risk research and development projects, time commitments, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. failure to stay current with our competitors with regard to new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure you that any of them will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. we have not commercially marketed many of our planned new products, such as certain of our planned silicone hydrogel contact lens products and new contact lens products containing our patented phosphorilcoline (pc) technology and have just begun manufacturing silicone hydrogel lenses in europe. market acceptance and customer demand for these products are uncertain. the development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: acceptance of our products by eyecare and women healthcare practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory requirements; the earlier release of competitive products, such as silicone hydrogel products into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our optical products. technological developments in the eyecare and women healthcare industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, may limit demand for our products. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. if these new advances were to provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. 18 table of contents our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations is conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america and europe. approximately 49% and 42% of our net sales for fiscal years ended october 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. further, we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of foreign regulatory requirements; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; and we may find it difficult to enter new markets such as china, india and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped distribution channels and business knowledge of these new markets. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. acquisitions we may make may involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years, including our recent acquisition of ocular. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at csi, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, 19 table of contents the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks we could face with respect to acquisitions include: difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations and/or terminate our employees; a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations and consequences thereof, such as whether a strategic or financial buyer would view such allocations as establishing a fair value for so called tangible and intangible assets. we face risks associated with disruption of manufacturing operations and failure to develop new manufacturing processes that could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials, such as silicone hydrogel, require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. our failure to develop such new manufacturing processes could significantly impact our ability to compete. cvi manufactures our molded contact lenses, which represent a significant portion of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom, puerto rico and norfolk, virginia. csi manufactures the majority of its products in trumbull, connecticut. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities and because this process is expensive, we have generally not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, and our product sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda quality system regulation, or qsr regulations 20 table of contents in japan, and other similar foreign regulations which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to pass a qsr or similar foreign inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. we rely on independent suppliers for raw materials and we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice. we rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals and packaging materials. raw materials used by us are generally available from more than one source. however, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. asahikasei aime co. ltd. (asahi) is our sole supplier of the material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, comfilcon a. if asahi fails to supply sufficient material on a timely basis or at all for any reason, we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products and may need to switch to an alternative supplier in accordance with our agreement with asahi. a disruption in the supply of comfilcon a could disrupt production of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete in all segments of the contact lens market. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes and remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. we are involved in a voluntary clean-up at one of our sites in the state of new york, and although the workplan submitted to the state was accepted and the clean-up is proceeding in accordance with the workplan and our expectations, there can be no assurance that the clean-up will be completed within the timeframe and cost projected, that the expected results will be achieved, or that we will not identify alternate sources of contamination in connection with their remediation. as such, there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such remediation. 21 table of contents we could experience losses from product liability claims, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing product might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. in addition, consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product that is the subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing product, in the future. if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, we cannot assure you that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. we also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. we cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. if we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we could lose competitive advantages and be materially adversely affected. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 table of contents our intellectual property could be subject to claims of infringement. our competitors in both the u.s. and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. we have not conducted an independent review of patents issued to third parties. claims that our products infringe the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. third parties have made, and it is possible that they will make in future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with their use of our technology. any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or reengineer our products, if feasible; divert management attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. any royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of october 31, 2005, we had total indebtedness of $704.9 million and $179.3 million of availability under our bank credit facility for further borrowings. our substantial indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and 23 table of contents make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facility or repurchase the debentures under certain circumstances; in addition, our credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain our desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we may use interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to effectively manage our risks, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations tend to affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen, and euro. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our debt or receivables obligations, these hedging transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. in addition, to the extent we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies the translation of those results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. we may be required to recognize impairment charges on goodwill, which would reduce our consolidated net worth and stockholders equity. pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, we are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill balance annually or at any time when events occur, which could impact the value of our business segments. our determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of each of our reporting units fair market value with its carrying value. significant and unanticipated changes could require a provision for impairment in a future period that could substantially affect our reported earnings in a period of such change. in addition, such charges would reduce our consolidated net worth and our shareholders equity, increasing our debt to total capitalization ratio, which may result in a default under our credit facilities. increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns for ocular sciences, inc. for periods prior to our acquisition could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where the company has higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where it 24 table of contents has lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. in addition, the internal revenue service has been auditing ocular income tax returns for the years 1999 2003, and we are also subject to the examination of its income tax returns by other tax authorities. the outcome of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we are in the process of upgrading certain of our management information systems and we cannot assure you that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruption of our business. we have implemented a management information system at our major locations and are in the process of implementing the system for substantially all of our businesses worldwide. many other companies have had severe problems with computer system implementations of this nature and scope. we are using a controlled project plan, and we believe we have assigned adequate staffing and other resources to the projects to ensure its successful implementation. however, we cannot assure you that the design will meet our current and future business needs or that it will operate as designed. we are heavily dependent on such computer systems, and any failure or delay in the system implementation would cause a substantial interruption to our business, additional expense and loss of sales, customers and profits. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing and engineering personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, and our rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations and (ii) the authority of our board to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock with such terms as our board may determine. we will also be afforded the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have similar effects. our board of directors adopted a preferred stock purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, pursuant to a rights agreement dated as of october 29, 1997. the rights agreement is intended to prevent abusive hostile takeover attempts by requiring a potential acquiror to negotiate the terms of an acquisition with our board of directors. however, it could have the effect of deterring or preventing an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of the our stockholders would be in favor of such acquisition, and could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to gain control of the company or to change existing management. 25 table of contents risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion and distribution, as well as the export of medical devices manufactured in the united states to foreign markets. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. our medical devices require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements will not occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, the fda may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted, and failure to comply with fda regulations prohibiting a manufacturer from promoting a device for an unapproved, or off-label use could result in enforcement action by the fda, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil or criminal penalties. development and marketing of our products is subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse affect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be 26 table of contents marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. due to the movement towards harmonization of standards in the european union, we expect a changing regulatory environment in europe characterized by a shift from a country by-country regulatory system to a european union-wide single regulatory system. we cannot currently predict the timing of this harmonization. our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda quality system regulation, or qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. a government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing or labeling errors or design defects. any voluntary or government mandated recall may divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers. any recall involving one of our products could also harm the reputation of the product and the company and would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results. changes in government regulation of the retail optical industry or in the selling and prescribing practices for contact lenses could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. our success depends to a significant extent upon the success of our customers who prescribe and fit contact lenses, including optometrists, ophthalmologists, and optical retail outlets, which are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances. these regulations relate to who is permitted to prescribe and fit contact lenses, the prescriber obligation to provide prescriptions to its patients, the length of time a prescription is valid, the ability or obligation of prescribers to prescribe lenses by brand rather than by generic equivalent or specification, and other matters. the state and local legal requirements vary widely among jurisdictions and are subject to frequent change. in addition, numerous healthcare-related legislative proposals have been made in recent years in the congress and in various state legislatures. for instance, the fairness to contact lens consumers act, which was enacted on december 6, 2003, requires that contact lens prescribers provide patients with a copy of their contact lens prescriptions after a contact lens fitting and verify those prescriptions to any third party designated by a patient, such as an online seller. further legislative or policy initiatives directed at prescribers and the retail optical industry could be introduced on either the federal or state level. the potential impact of these proposals with respect to the business of our customers is uncertain, and we cannot assure you that that the proposals, if adopted, would not have a material adverse impact on our revenues, business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 table of contents adverse regulatory or other decisions affecting eyecare practitioners, or material changes in the selling and prescribing practices for contact lenses, could also have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. finally, although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third party healthcare payors, such as insurers and health maintenance organizations, have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in government regulation of the healthcare industry could materially adversely affect our business. in recent years, an increasing number of legislative initiatives have been introduced or proposed in congress and in state legislatures that could effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. among the proposals under consideration are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of a government health insurance plan or plans that would cover all citizens. there continue to be efforts at the federal level to introduce various insurance market reforms, expanded fraud and abuse and anti referral legislation and further reductions in medicare and medicaid coverage and reimbursement. a broad range of both similar and more comprehensive healthcare reform initiatives is likely to be considered at the state level. it is uncertain which, if any, of these or other proposals will be adopted. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. the costs of complying with the requirements of federal laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. other federal legislation will affect the manner in which we use and disclose health information. the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa) mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards for the electronic exchange of health information that may require significant and costly changes to current practices. the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) has released three rules to date mandating the use of new standards with respect to certain healthcare transactions and health information. the first rule requires the use of uniform standards for common healthcare transactions, including healthcare claims information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, plan premium payments, and coordination of benefits. the second rule released by hhs imposes new standards relating to the privacy of individually identifiable health information. these standards not only require compliance with rules governing the use and disclosure of protected health information, but they also require an entity subject to hipaa to obtain satisfactory assurances that any of its business associates to whom such information is disclosed will safeguard the information. the third rule released by hhs establishes minimum standards for the security of electronic health information. while we do not believe we are directly regulated as a covered entity under hipaa, many of our customers are covered entities subject to hipaa. such customers may require us to enter into business associates agreements, which obligate us to safeguard certain health information we obtain in the course of servicing the customers, restrict the manner in which we use and disclose such information and impose liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. the costs of complying with these contractual obligations and potential liability associated with failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and results of operations. 28 table of contents federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of its practices to be in compliance with these laws. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if there is a change in law, regulation, administrative or judicial interpretation, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. note numbers refer to the notes to consolidated financial statements beginning on page 57 of this form 10-k. the company is exposed to market risks that relate principally to changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. the company policy is to minimize, to the extent reasonable and practical, its exposure to the impact of changing interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations by entering into interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, respectively. the company does not enter into derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. additional information for this item is incorporated by reference to derivatives in note 1. summary of significant accounting policies and in note 7. financial instruments. long-term debt total debt increased to $704.9 million at october 31, 2005, from $165.7 million at october 31, 2004, primarily due to the financing required for the acquisition of ocular. long-term debt includes $115 million of convertible senior debentures (see convertible senior debentures in note 6. debt) issued in fiscal year 2003, and the proceeds were used to reduce amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility and for additional funding requirements. october 31, (in millions) 2005 2004 short-term debt $ 72.3 $ 20.9 long-term debt 632.6 144.8 total $ 704.9 $ 165.7 as of october 31, 2005, the scheduled maturities of the company fixed and variable rate long-term debt obligations (excluding capitalized leases), their weighted average interest rates and their estimated fair values were as follows: expected maturity date fiscal year ($ in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total fair value long-term debt: fixed interest rate $ $ $ $ $ $ 112.5 $ 112.5 $ 185.4 average interest rate 2.6% variable interest rate $ 72.2 $ 50.5 $ 54.7 $ 67.4 $ 199.0 $ 148.5 $ 592.3 $ 592.3 average interest rate 5.6% 5.6% 5.6% 5.6% 5.7% 5.7% as the table incorporates only those exposures that existed as of october 31, 2005, it does not consider those exposures or positions which could arise after that date. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on interest rates, the exposures that arise during the period and our hedging strategies at that time. we currently are entered into interest rate swaps designed to fix the borrowing costs related to $500 million of the company floating rate syndicated bank credit facility. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1% or 100 basis points, interest expense on our variable rate debt would increase or decrease by approximately $920,000 annually. 49 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors risks relating to our business, included in this report. employees on october 31, 2006, the company had about 7,500 employees. the company believes that its relations with its employees are good. 16 table of contents new york stock exchange certification we submitted our 2006 annual section 12(a) ceo certification with the new york stock exchange. the certification was not qualified in any respect. additionally, we filed with the securities and exchange commission as exhibits to our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended october 31, 2006, the ceo and cfo certifications required under section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. available information the cooper companies, inc. internet address is http://www.coopercos.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec) are publicly available free of charge on our web site as soon as reasonably practicable. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains a web site that contains such reports, proxy and information statements and other information whose internet address is http://www.sec.gov. the company corporate governance principles, ethics and business conduct policy and charters of each committee of the board of directors are also posted on the company web site. the information on the company web site is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the sec. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock or convertible debentures could decline. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive healthcare industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens segment, cvi faces intense competition from competitors products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our major competitors in the contact lens business have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and larger manufacturing volumes than cvi. our major competitors in the specialty contact lens business offer competitive products, newer materials plus a variety of other eye care products, including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. moreover, silicone hydrogel lenses are gaining market acceptance in the specialty lens business and we are not yet able to manufacture and market our own competitive silicone hydrogel specialty products, which could erode our specialty lens market share and margins. the market for our non-specialty, commodity contact lenses is also intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results, to successfully introduce new products, including our own silicone hydrogel products, on a timely basis in markets such as the united states, europe and japan, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities and/or convert certain high volume production onto our gen ii manufacturing platform (gen ii). our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, cvi also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, or that a successful entry into cvi higher-margin specialty lens segments by a larger competitor would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in the women healthcare segment, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians and hospitals. csi competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche markets, some of which have substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. 18 table of contents product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence. product innovations are important in the contact lens business in which cvi competes and in the niche areas of the healthcare industry in which csi competes. historically, we did not allocate substantial resources to new product development, but rather purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. with the acquisition of ocular, we are investing more in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. although our focus is on products that will be marketable immediately or in the short to medium term rather than on funding longer-term, higher risk research and development projects, time commitments, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. failure to stay current with our competitors with regard to new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure you that any of them will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. we have not commercially marketed many of our planned new products, such as certain of our planned silicone hydrogel contact lens products and new contact lens products containing our patented pc technology and have limited manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel product recently launched on a limited basis for sale in europe, the united states and select asia-pacific markets. market acceptance and customer demand for these products are uncertain. the development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: limited product availability due to manufacturing constraints; acceptance of our products by eye care and women healthcare practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory requirements; the earlier release of competitive products, such as silicone hydrogel products into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care and women healthcare industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, may limit demand for our products. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease 19 table of contents the demand for our optical products. if these new advances were to provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations is conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america and europe. approximately 50% and 49% of our net sales for the years ended october 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. further, we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of foreign regulatory requirements; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; and we may find it difficult to enter new markets such as china, india and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped distribution channels and business knowledge of these new markets. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. 20 table of contents acquisitions we may make may involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years, including our acquisition of ocular. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at csi, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks we could face with respect to acquisitions include: difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations and/or terminate our employees; a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations and consequences thereof, such as whether a strategic or financial buyer would view such allocations as establishing a fair value for so-called tangible and intangible assets. we face risks associated with disruption of manufacturing operations and failure to develop new manufacturing processes that could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials, such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. our failure to develop such new manufacturing processes could significantly impact our ability to compete. cvi manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent a significant portion of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom, puerto rico and norfolk, virginia. csi manufactures the majority of its products in trumbull, connecticut. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities and because this process is expensive, we have generally not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. 21 table of contents if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, and our product sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to pass a qsr or similar foreign inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. we rely on independent suppliers for raw materials and we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice. we rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals and packaging materials. raw materials used by us are generally available from more than one source. however, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. asahikasei aime co. ltd. (asahi) is our sole supplier of the material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, comfilcon a. if asahi fails to supply sufficient material on a timely basis or at all for any reason, we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products and may need to switch to an alternative supplier in accordance with our agreement with asahi. a disruption in the supply of comfilcon a could disrupt production of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete in all segments of the contact lens market. if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may also seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. see item 3. legal proceedings (ciba vision). our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; divert management attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. 22 table of contents we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, we cannot assure you that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. we also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. we cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. if we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we could lose competitive advantage and be materially adversely affected. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our intellectual property could be subject to claims of infringement. our competitors in both the u.s. and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. claims that our products infringe the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. third parties have made, and it is possible that they will make in future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with their use of our technology. see item 3. legal proceedings (bausch &amp; lomb, ciba vision). any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or reengineer our products, if feasible; divert management attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. 23 table of contents any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing product might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. in addition, consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product that is the subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing product, in the future. we face risks in connection with securities litigation. the company and several of its directors and officers have been named in a consolidated putative securities class action lawsuit and its directors and certain of its officers have been named in two consolidated derivative lawsuits, the nature and status of which are described in item 3. legal proceedings. the consolidated putative securities class action seeks unspecified damages from the company, and we are unable to estimate the range of potential losses that would be incurred if the plaintiffs in this action were to prevail, or to determine the total effect that it may have on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. however, any settlement or judgment on the merits of this action could have a material adverse effect on the company liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, securities litigation, irrespective of its merits, is costly to defend and diverts management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. the purported derivative lawsuits, which are at a very preliminary stage, do not seek damages from the company. however, derivative litigation is costly, and these lawsuits may divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes and remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. 24 table of contents we are involved in a voluntary clean-up at one of our sites in the state of new york, and although the workplan submitted to the state was accepted and the clean-up is proceeding in accordance with the workplan and our expectations, there can be no assurance that the clean-up will be completed within the timeframe and cost projected, that the expected results will be achieved, or that we will not identify alternate sources of contamination in connection with their remediation. as such, there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such remediation. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. our substantial indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facility or repurchase our convertible debentures under certain circumstances; in addition, our credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain our desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we currently use, and may continue to use, interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to effectively manage our risks, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations tend to affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen, and euro. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. although we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in 25 table of contents foreign currency values relative to our debt or receivables obligations, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. these hedges also serve to reduce any gain that we may have made based on favorable foreign currency fluctuations. in addition, to the extent we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. finally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies the translation of those results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. we may be required to recognize impairment charges on goodwill, which would reduce our net income, consolidated net worth and stockholders equity. pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, we are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill balance annually or at any time when events occur, which could impact the value of our business segments. our determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of each of our reporting units fair market value with its carrying value. significant and unanticipated changes could require a provision for impairment in a future period that could substantially affect our reported earnings in a period of such change. in addition, such charges would reduce our consolidated net worth and our shareholders equity, increasing our debt to total capitalization ratio, which may result in a default under our credit facilities. increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns for ocular for periods prior to our acquisition could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where the company has higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where it has lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. in addition, the internal revenue service (irs) has been auditing ocular income tax returns for the years 2002 2005, and we are also subject to the examination of its income tax returns by other tax authorities. the outcome of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. at october 31, 2006 we had u.s. net operating loss (nol) carryforwards of approximately $143.4 million. approximately $56.3 million of the nol expires in fiscal 2007 and 2008. although we presently anticipate utilizing the entire nol in our tax filings, significant and unanticipated changes in our projected u.s. taxable income may result in our not fully utilizing the nol. should this occur, the tax effect of the unutilized nol would be reflected a as a non-cash-related tax provision on our statement of income. we are in the process of upgrading certain of our management information systems, and we cannot assure you that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruption of our business. we have implemented a management information system at our major locations and are in the process of implementing the system for substantially all of our businesses worldwide. many other companies have had severe problems with computer system implementations of this nature and scope. we are using a controlled project plan, and we believe we have assigned adequate staffing and other resources to the projects to ensure its successful implementation. however, we cannot assure you that the design will meet our current and future business needs or that it will operate as designed. we are heavily 26 table of contents dependent on such computer systems, and any failure or delay in the system implementation would cause a substantial interruption to our business, additional expense and loss of sales, customers and profits. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing and engineering personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, and our rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations and (ii) the authority of our board to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock with such terms as our board may determine. we will also be afforded the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have similar effects. our board of directors adopted a preferred stock purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, pursuant to a rights agreement dated as of october 29, 1997. the rights agreement is intended to prevent abusive hostile takeover attempts by requiring a potential acquiror to negotiate the terms of an acquisition with our board of directors. however, it could have the effect of deterring or preventing an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of the our stockholders would be in favor of such acquisition, and could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to gain control of the company or to change existing management. risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion and distribution, as well as the export of medical devices manufactured in the united states to foreign markets. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. our medical devices require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices may only be marketed for the indications 27 table of contents for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements will not occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda may change its policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products or could impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, the fda may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted, and failure to comply with fda regulations prohibiting a manufacturer from promoting a device for an unapproved, or off-label use could result in enforcement action by the fda, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil or criminal penalties. development and marketing of our products is subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse affect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. due to the movement towards harmonization of standards in the european union, we expect a changing regulatory environment in europe characterized by a shift from a country by-country regulatory system to a european union-wide single regulatory system. we cannot currently predict the timing of this harmonization. our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality 28 table of contents assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. a government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing or labeling errors or design defects. any voluntary or government mandated recall may divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers. any recall involving one of our products could also harm the reputation of the product and the company and would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results. changes in government regulation of the retail optical industry or in the selling and prescribing practices for contact lenses could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. our success depends to a significant extent upon the success of our customers who prescribe and fit contact lenses, including optometrists, ophthalmologists, and optical retail outlets, which are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances. these regulations relate to who is permitted to prescribe and fit contact lenses, the prescriber obligation to provide prescriptions to its patients, the length of time a prescription is valid, the ability or obligation of prescribers to prescribe lenses by brand rather than by generic equivalent or specification, and other matters. the state and local legal requirements vary widely among jurisdictions and are subject to frequent change. in addition, numerous healthcare-related legislative proposals have been made in recent years in the congress and in various state legislatures. for instance, the fairness to contact lens consumers act, which was enacted on december 6, 2003, requires that contact lens prescribers provide patients with a copy of their contact lens prescriptions after a contact lens fitting and verify those prescriptions to any third party designated by a patient, such as an online seller. in addition, legislation has been introduced in congress and in several states to require manufacturers of contact lenses to distribute through internet suppliers and other companies, even if the manufacturers would not choose to distribute through these outlets in the absence of such a requirement. although such legislation has been enacted only in the state of utah, there are likely to be continued efforts to enact it in congress and in other states. further legislative or policy initiatives directed at prescribers and the retail optical industry could be introduced on either the federal or state level. the impact of the utah law on our business in that state is uncertain since the law has recently gone into effect, and there have been no interpretations of its provisions by the utah courts or the utah attorney general. the potential impact of other legislative proposals with respect to the business of our customers is also uncertain, and we cannot assure you that the proposals, if adopted, would not have a material adverse impact on our revenues, business, financial condition and results of operations. adverse regulatory or other decisions affecting eye care practitioners, or material changes in the selling and prescribing practices for contact lenses, could also have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. finally, although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third party healthcare payors, such as insurers and health maintenance organizations, have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 table of contents changes in government regulation of the healthcare industry could materially adversely affect our business. in recent years, an increasing number of legislative initiatives have been introduced or proposed in congress and in state legislatures that could effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. among the proposals under consideration are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of a government health insurance plan or plans that would cover all citizens. there continue to be efforts at the federal level to introduce various insurance market reforms, expanded fraud and abuse and anti referral legislation and further reductions in medicare and medicaid coverage and reimbursement. a broad range of both similar and more comprehensive healthcare reform initiatives is likely to be considered at the state level. it is uncertain which, if any, of these or other proposals will be adopted. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. the costs of complying with the requirements of federal laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. other federal legislation affects the manner in which we use and disclose health information. hipaa mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards for the electronic exchange of health information that may require significant and costly changes to current practices. hhs has released three rules to date mandating the use of new standards with respect to certain healthcare transactions and health information. the first rule requires the use of uniform standards for common healthcare transactions, including healthcare claims information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, plan premium payments and coordination of benefits. the second rule released by hhs imposes new standards relating to the privacy of individually identifiable health information. these standards not only require compliance with rules governing the use and disclosure of protected health information, but they also require an entity subject to hipaa to obtain satisfactory assurances that any of its business associates to whom such information is disclosed will safeguard the information. the third rule released by hhs establishes minimum standards for the security of electronic health information. while we do not believe we are directly regulated as a covered entity under hipaa, many of our customers are covered entities subject to hipaa. such customers may require us to enter into business associate agreements, which obligate us to safeguard certain health information we obtain in the course of servicing the customers, restrict the manner in which we use and disclose such information and impose liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. the costs of complying with these contractual obligations and potential liability associated with failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and results of operations. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of 30 table of contents the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of its practices to be in compliance with these laws. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if there is a change in law, regulation, administrative or judicial interpretation, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. note numbers refer to the notes to consolidated financial statements included inrisk factors 18 risk factors risks relating to our business, included in this report. employees on october 31, 2007, the company had about 7,600 employees. the company believes that its relations with its employees are good. new york stock exchange certification we submitted our 2007 annual section 12(a) ceo certification with the new york stock exchange. the certification was not qualified in any respect. additionally, we filed with the securities and exchange commission as exhibits to our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended october 31, 2007, the ceo and cfo certifications required under section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. available information the cooper companies, inc. internet address is http://www.coopercos.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec), are publicly available free of charge on our web site as soon as reasonably practicable. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains a web site that contains such reports, proxy and information statements and other information whose internet address is http://www.sec.gov. the company corporate governance principles, ethics and business conduct policy and charters of each standing committee of the board of directors are also posted on the company web site. the information on the company web site is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the sec. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock or convertible debentures could decline. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive healthcare industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens segment, cvi faces intense competition from competitors products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our major competitors in the contact lens business have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and larger manufacturing volumes than cvi. our major competitors in the specialty contact lens business offer competitive products and newer materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. moreover, silicone hydrogel lenses are gaining market acceptance in the specialty lens business and we are not yet able to manufacture and market our own competitive silicone hydrogel specialty products, which could erode our specialty lens market share and margins. the market for our non-specialty, commodity contact lenses is also intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to successfully introduce new products, including our own silicone hydrogel products, on a timely basis in markets such as the united states, europe and japan, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, cvi also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, or that a successful entry into cvi higher-margin specialty lens segments by a larger competitor would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in the women healthcare segment, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians and hospitals. csi competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche markets, some of which have substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. 18 table of contents product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence. product innovations are important in the contact lens business in which cvi competes and in the niche areas of the healthcare industry in which csi competes. historically, we did not allocate substantial resources to new product development, but rather purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. however, since 2005, we have been investing more in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. although our focus is on products that will be marketable immediately or in the short to medium term rather than on funding longer-term, higher risk research and development projects, time commitments, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. failure to stay current with our competitors with regard to new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure you that any of them will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. we are in the process of expanding our manufacturing capacity and product sales of our biofinity &reg; and proclear &reg; 1 day products which we view as key products to drive our future growth. in addition, we have not commercially marketed many of our planned new products, such as certain of our planned silicone hydrogel contact lens products. market acceptance and customer demand for these products are uncertain. the development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: limited product availability due to manufacturing constraints; acceptance of our products by eye care and women healthcare practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory requirements; the earlier release of competitive products, such as silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care and women healthcare industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, may limit demand for our products. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease 19 table of contents the demand for our optical products. if these new advances were to provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations for cvi are conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america and europe. approximately 61% and 59% of our net sales for cvi for the years ended october 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. further, we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of foreign regulatory requirements; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; and we may find it difficult to enter new markets such as china, india and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped distribution channels and business knowledge of these new markets. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. 20 table of contents acquisitions that we may make may involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at csi, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks we could face with respect to acquisitions include: difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations and/or terminate our employees; a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations and consequences thereof, such as whether a strategic or financial buyer would view such allocations as establishing a fair value for so-called tangible and intangible assets. we face risks associated with disruption of manufacturing and distribution operations and failure to develop new manufacturing processes that could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials, such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. our failure to develop such improvements to our manufacturing processes could significantly impact our ability to compete. cvi manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent a significant portion of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom, puerto rico and norfolk, virginia. csi manufactures the majority of its products in trumbull, connecticut. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we have generally not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. 21 table of contents cvi distributes products out of rochester, new york, and the united kingdom and various smaller international distribution facilities. csi products are primarily distributed out of its facility in trumbull, connecticut. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, and our product sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to pass a qsr or similar foreign inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. we rely on independent suppliers for raw materials and we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice. we rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals and packaging materials. raw materials used by us are generally available from more than one source. however, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. asahikasei aime co. ltd. (asahi) is our sole supplier of the primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, comfilcon a. if asahi fails to supply sufficient material on a timely basis or at all for any reason, we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products and may need to switch to an alternative supplier in accordance with our agreement with asahi. a disruption in the supply of comfilcon a could disrupt production of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete in this important segment of the contact lens market. if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 table of contents we may also seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; divert management attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, we cannot assure you that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. we also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, we cannot assure you that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. furthermore, enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. if we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we could lose competitive advantage and be materially adversely affected. we rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. to maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. also, we might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 table of contents our intellectual property could be subject to claims of infringement. our competitors in both the united states and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. claims that our products infringe the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. third parties have made, and it is possible that they will make in future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with their use of our technology. see part i, item 3. legal proceedings (bausch &amp; lomb, ciba vision). any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or reengineer our products, if feasible; divert management attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. however, we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing product might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. in addition, consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product that is the subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing product, in the future. 24 table of contents concerns with the safety of certain contact lens solutions resulting in the voluntary recall of such products may adversely affect the contact lens industry in general. on may 15, 2006, bausch &amp; lomb announced a worldwide voluntary recall of renu with moistureloc following a governmental investigation into an increase in fungal infections among contact lens wearers in the united states and certain asian markets. on may 25, 2007, advanced medical optics announced a worldwide voluntary recall of complete &reg; moistureplus based on cdc data linking the product to an increased risk of acanthamoeba keratitis, a rare, but serious, infection of the cornea. while our contact lens products have not been associated with either of these recalls, these recalls and others, or similar safety issues, may result in more rigorous government oversight, regulation or enforcement, damage consumer confidence in the safety of contact lens usage which may negatively impact the growth of the contact lens market in general or cause consumers to try alternative vision correcting technologies. an overall slowdown in the growth of the worldwide contact lens market could adversely affect our ability to continue to increase revenues thereby having a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face risks in connection with securities litigation. the company and several of its directors and officers have been named in a consolidated putative securities class action lawsuit and its directors and certain of its officers have been named in two consolidated derivative lawsuits, the nature and status of which are described in item 3. legal proceedings. the consolidated putative securities class action seeks unspecified damages from the company, and we are unable to estimate the range of potential losses that would be incurred if the plaintiffs in this action were to prevail, or to determine the total effect that it may have on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. however, any settlement or judgment on the merits of this action could have a material adverse effect on the company liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, securities litigation, irrespective of its merits, is costly to defend and diverts management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. the purported derivative lawsuits, which are at a very preliminary stage, do not seek damages from the company. however, derivative litigation is costly, and these lawsuits may divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. 25 table of contents we are conducting a voluntary clean-up at one of our sites in the state of new york. although the workplan that we submitted to the state has been approved and we believe that the clean-up is proceeding in accordance with the workplan and our expectations, there can be no assurance that the clean-up will be completed within the timeframe and cost projected, that the expected results will be achieved, or that we will not identify alternate sources or higher levels of contamination. as such, there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection therewith. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. our substantial indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facility or repurchase our convertible debentures under certain circumstances; in addition, our credit facility and senior notes contain financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain our desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we currently use, and may continue to use, interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to effectively manage our risks, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations tend to affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen, and euro. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. although we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our debt or receivables obligations, these hedging transactions do 26 table of contents not eliminate that risk entirely. these hedges also serve to reduce any gain that we may have made based on favorable foreign currency fluctuations. in addition, to the extent we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. finally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies the translation of those results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. we may be required to recognize impairment charges on goodwill, which would reduce our net income, consolidated net worth and stockholders equity. pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, we are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill balance annually or at any time when events occur, which could impact the value of our business segments. our determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of each of our reporting units fair market value with its carrying value. significant and unanticipated changes could require a provision for impairment in a future period that could substantially affect our reported earnings in a period of such change. in addition, such charges would reduce our consolidated net worth and our shareholders equity and increase our debt to total capitalization ratio, which may result in a default under our credit facilities. the accounting for convertible debt securities is subject to uncertainty and changes in accounting guidance could adversely impact our reported and future results. the accounting for convertible debt securities is subject to frequent scrutiny by accounting regulatory bodies and is subject to change. we cannot predict if or when any future accounting changes will be made. however, any such change could have an adverse impact on our reported or future financial results and could adversely affect the trading prices of our securities. for example, the accounting method for convertible debt securities that can be settled in stock, cash or a combination, which would include our 2.625% convertible senior debentures due 2023, or our debentures, has been under review by accounting regulatory bodies for some time. a proposal to change the existing accounting method for convertible debt securities has recently been made by the fasb. under the proposal, for accounting purposes convertible debt securities such as our debentures would be bifurcated into a debt component and an equity component. the value assigned to the debt component would be the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of a similar, nonconvertible debt security. the difference between the proceeds from the convertible debt security and the amount reflected as a debt liability would be recorded as additional paid-in capital. as a result, the liability associated with a convertible debt security would be expected to be recorded at a discount to its face amount because the stated interest rate on a convertible debt security is typically lower than the market interest rate that would apply to a similar, nonconvertible debt security. such convertible debt securities would subsequently accrete to their face amount over their expected life, based on the market rate of interest for a similar, nonconvertible debt security. the proposal would also require issuers to recognize additional noncash interest expense in their income statement based on the difference between the stated interest rate on their convertible debt securities and the market rate of interest for a similar, nonconvertible debt security. the proposal would apply retrospectively to all periods presented in quarterly and annual filings with the securities and exchange commission. this proposed change in accounting methodology, if adopted in its current form, would negatively affect the calculations of net income and earnings per share for many issuers of convertible debt securities and related interest and debt based financial ratios. 27 table of contents implementation of this proposal is ongoing and we cannot predict the exact methodology that will be imposed, which may differ materially from the foregoing description, or when any change will be finally implemented. increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where the company has higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where it has lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. in addition, the internal revenue service (irs) has been auditing ocular income tax returns for the years 2002 2005, and we are also subject to the examination of the company income tax returns by other tax authorities. the outcome of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. failure to utilize u.s. net operating losses could negatively impact our statement of operations. at october 31, 2007, we had u.s. net operating loss carryforwards (nols) of approximately $109.7 million. approximately $25.9 million of the nols expire in fiscal 2008. although we presently anticipate utilizing the entire nol in our tax filings, significant and unanticipated changes in our projected u.s. taxable income may result in our not fully utilizing the nol. should this occur, the tax effect of the unutilized nol would be reflected as a non-cash-related tax provision on our consolidated statements of operations. we are in the process of upgrading certain of our management information systems, and we cannot assure you that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruption of our business. we have implemented a management information system at our major locations and are in the process of implementing the system for substantially all of our businesses worldwide. many other companies have had severe problems with computer system implementations of this nature and scope. we are using a controlled project plan, and we believe we have assigned adequate staffing and other resources to the projects to ensure its successful implementation. however, we cannot assure you that the design will meet our current and future business needs or that it will operate as designed. we are heavily dependent on such computer systems, and any failure or delay in the system implementation would cause a substantial interruption to our business, additional expense and loss of sales, customers and profits. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing and engineering personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. 28 table of contents provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, and our rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations and (ii) the authority of our board to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock with such terms as our board may determine. we will also be afforded the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have similar effects. our board of directors extended our preferred stock purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, pursuant to an amended rights agreement dated as of october 29, 2007. the rights agreement is intended to prevent abusive hostile takeover attempts by requiring a potential acquiror to negotiate the terms of an acquisition with our board of directors. however, it could have the effect of deterring or preventing an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of the our stockholders would be in favor of such acquisition, and could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to gain control of the company or to change existing management. risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion and distribution, as well as the export of medical devices manufactured in the united states to foreign markets. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. our medical devices require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements will not occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda may change its policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products or could impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance 29 table of contents or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, the fda may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted, and failure to comply with fda regulations prohibiting a manufacturer from promoting a device for an unapproved, or off-label use could result in enforcement action by the fda, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil or criminal penalties. development and marketing of our products is subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse affect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. due to the movement towards harmonization of standards in the european union, we expect a changing regulatory environment in europe characterized by a shift from a country by-country regulatory system to a european union-wide single regulatory system. we cannot currently predict the timing of this harmonization. our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. a government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing or labeling errors or design defects. any voluntary or government mandated recall may divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers. any recall involving one of our products could also harm the reputation of the product and the company and would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results. 30 table of contents changes in government regulation of the healthcare industry as well as third-party payors efforts to control the costs of healthcare could materially adversely affect our business. in recent years, an increasing number of healthcare reform proposals have been formulated by the legislative and executive branches of the federal and state governments. these proposals could effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. among the proposals under consideration are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that companies that sell products to hospitals and other healthcare providers must publicly disclose their prices, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of a government health insurance plan or plans that would cover all citizens. there also continue to be efforts at the federal level to introduce various insurance market reforms, expanded fraud and abuse and anti referral legislation and further reductions in medicare and medicaid coverage and reimbursement. a broad range of both similar and more comprehensive healthcare reform initiatives is likely to be considered at the state level. although it is uncertain which, if any, of these or other proposals will be adopted, the potential for adoption of these proposals affects or may affect our ability to market our products. any adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. in addition, we may experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to additional legislative proposals or healthcare reform initiatives, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products. future legislation and regulations may adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. in addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the united states or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. these cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, widely publicized events concerning the safety risk of certain medical products, including the voluntary recalls of certain contact lens solutions in 2006 and 2007 by bausch &amp; lomb and advanced medical optics, respectively, may cause regulatory authorities, members of congress, the government accounting office, medical professionals and the general public to raise concerns about potential medical product safety issues. this increased attention may result in increased regulation and scrutiny of medical devices, such as, for example, the food and drug administration amendment act of 2007, which was recently enacted, providing for the establishment of a unique system for identifying medical devices, among other provisions. 31 table of contents the costs of complying with the requirements of federal laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. other federal legislation affects the manner in which we use and disclose health information. hipaa mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards for the electronic exchange of health information that may require significant and costly changes to current practices. hhs has released three rules to date mandating the use of new standards with respect to certain healthcare transactions and health information. the first rule requires the use of uniform standards for common healthcare transactions, including healthcare claims information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, plan premium payments and coordination of benefits. the second rule released by hhs imposes new standards relating to the privacy of individually identifiable health information. these standards not only require compliance with rules governing the use and disclosure of protected health information, but they also require an entity subject to hipaa to obtain satisfactory assurances that any of its business associates to whom such information is disclosed will safeguard the information. the third rule released by hhs establishes minimum standards for the security of electronic health information. while we do not believe we are directly regulated as a covered entity under hipaa, many of our customers are covered entities subject to hipaa. such customers may require us to enter into business associate agreements, which obligate us to safeguard certain health information we obtain in the course of servicing the customers, restrict the manner in which we use and disclose such information and impose liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. the costs of complying with these contractual obligations and potential liability associated with failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and results of operations. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations. we may be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if there is a change in law, regulation, administrative or judicial interpretation, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. note numbers refer to the notes to consolidated financial statements included inrisk factors 17 risk factors risks relating to our business, included in this report. employees on october 31, 2008, the company had about 7,400 employees. the company believes that its relations with its employees are good. new york stock exchange certification we submitted our 2008 annual section 12(a) ceo certification with the new york stock exchange. the certification was not qualified in any respect. additionally, we filed with the securities and exchange commission as exhibits to our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended october 31, 2008, the ceo and cfo certifications required under section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. available information the cooper companies, inc. internet address is http://www.coopercos.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec), are publicly available free of charge on our web site as soon as reasonably practicable. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains a web site that contains such reports, proxy and information statements and other information whose internet address is http://www.sec.gov. the company corporate governance principles, ethics and business conduct policy and charters of each standing committee of the board of directors are also posted on the company web site. the information on the company web site is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the sec. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive healthcare industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens segment, cvi faces intense competition from competitors products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our major competitors in the contact lens business, johnson &amp; johnson vision care, inc., ciba vision (owned by novartis ag) and bausch &amp; lomb, have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and larger manufacturing volumes than cvi. our major competitors in the specialty contact lens business offer competitive products and newer materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. moreover, silicone hydrogel lenses are gaining market acceptance in the specialty lens business, particularly in the u.s. market, and we have not yet introduced our own competitive silicone hydrogel specialty products, which could erode our specialty lens market share and margins. the market for our non-specialty, commodity contact lenses is also intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to successfully introduce new products, on a timely basis in markets such as the united states, europe and japan, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, cvi also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, or that our competitors newer specialty lens products will not successfully erode cvi higher-margin specialty lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the women healthcare segment, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians and hospitals. csi competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche markets, some of which have 17 table of contents substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business. in the united states and globally, current market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth. for our fiscal year ended october 31, 2008, economists have declared that the u.s. economy is in a recession, facing continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions such as inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and a declining real estate market. countries globally are affected by similar systemic impacts. we experienced a slow down in contact lens sales, particularly in the u.s. market, in october and november of 2008 and current economic conditions and recessionary pressures have lowered our expectations for 2009. as a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers. continued turbulence in the united states and international market and economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. if these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. if current market conditions do not improve, the demand for contact lenses may materially decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence. product innovations are important in the contact lens business in which cvi competes and in the niche areas of the healthcare industry in which csi competes. historically, we did not allocate substantial resources to new product development, but rather purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. however, since 2005, we have been investing more in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. although our focus is on products that will be marketable immediately or in the short to medium term rather than on funding longer-term, higher risk research and development projects, time commitments, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. failure to develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 18 table of contents if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. we are in the process of expanding our manufacturing capacity and product sales of our biofinity, avaira and proclear 1 day products which we view as key products to drive our future growth. in addition, while our competitors have successfully introduced silicone hydrogel specialty contact lens products, we have not commercially marketed our planned silicone hydrogel specialty contact lens products. market acceptance and customer demand for these products are uncertain. the development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: limited product availability due to manufacturing constraints; acceptance of our products by eye care and women healthcare practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory requirements; the earlier release of competitive products, such as silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care and women healthcare industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, may limit demand for our products. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. if these new advances were to provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations for cvi are conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america and europe. approximately 63% and 61% of our net sales for cvi for the years ended october 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. further, we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; 19 table of contents tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of foreign regulatory requirements; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we do not have the rights to market or sell our current silicone hydrogel products in japan; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; and we may find it difficult to enter new markets such as china, india and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped distribution channels and business knowledge of these new markets. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. acquisitions that we may make may involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at csi, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks we could face with respect to acquisitions include: difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities of the acquired company; 20 table of contents expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations and/or terminate our employees; a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations and consequences thereof, such as whether a strategic or financial buyer would view such allocations as establishing a fair value for so-called tangible and intangible assets. we face risks associated with disruption of manufacturing and distribution operations and failure to develop new manufacturing processes that could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials, such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. while we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete. cvi manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent a significant portion of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom, puerto rico and norfolk, virginia. csi manufactures the majority of its products in trumbull, connecticut, and stafford, texas. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we have generally not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. cvi distributes products out of rochester, new york, and the united kingdom and various smaller international distribution facilities. csi products are primarily distributed out of its facility in trumbull, connecticut. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, and our product sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and 21 table of contents comparable agencies in other countries. failure to pass a qsr or similar foreign inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. we rely on independent suppliers for raw materials and we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice. we rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals and packaging materials. raw materials used by us are generally available from more than one source. however, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. asahikasei aime co. ltd. (asahi) is our sole supplier of the primary material, comfilcon a used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, biofinity and avaira. if asahi fails to supply sufficient material on a timely basis or at all for any reason, we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products and may need to switch to an alternative supplier in accordance with our agreement with asahi. a disruption in the supply of comfilcon a could disrupt production of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete in this important segment of the contact lens market. if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; divert management attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, 22 table of contents invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, we cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. we also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. furthermore, enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. if we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we could lose competitive advantage and be materially adversely affected. we rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. to maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. also, we might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our intellectual property could be subject to claims of infringement. our competitors in both the united states and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. claims that our products infringe the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. third parties have made, and it is possible that they will make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with their use of our technology. see part i, item 3. legal proceedings (bausch &amp; lomb). any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; 23 table of contents require us to redesign or reengineer our products, if feasible; divert management attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. in addition, consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product that is the subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing product, in the future. we face risks in connection with securities litigation. the company and several of its directors and officers have been named in a consolidated putative securities class action lawsuit and its directors and certain of its officers have been named in two consolidated derivative lawsuits, the nature and status of which are described in item 3. legal proceedings. the consolidated putative securities class action seeks unspecified damages from the company, and we are unable to estimate the range of potential losses that would be incurred if the plaintiffs in this action were to prevail, or to determine the total effect that it may have on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. however, any settlement or judgment on the merits of this action could have a material adverse effect on the company liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, securities litigation, irrespective of its merits, is costly to defend and diverts management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. the purported derivative lawsuits, which are at a very preliminary stage, do not seek damages from the company. however, derivative litigation is costly, and these lawsuits may divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of 24 table of contents hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. we are conducting a voluntary clean-up at one of our sites in the state of new york. although the workplan that we submitted to the state has been approved and we believe that the clean-up is proceeding in accordance with the workplan and our expectations, there can be no assurance that the clean-up will be completed within the timeframe and cost projected, that the expected results will be achieved, or that we will not identify alternate sources or higher levels of contamination. as such, there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection therewith. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. our substantial indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facility under certain circumstances; our credit facility and senior notes contain financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. in addition, current conditions in the global debt markets would make it difficult and costly to refinance our credit facility and senior notes. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain our desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we currently use, and may continue to use, interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment 25 table of contents obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to effectively manage our risks, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations tend to affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the pound sterling, euro, japanese yen and canadian dollar. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. although we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our debt or receivables obligations, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. these hedges also serve to reduce any gain that we may have made based on favorable foreign currency fluctuations. in addition, to the extent we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. finally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies the translation of those results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. we may be required to recognize impairment charges on goodwill, which would reduce our net income, consolidated net worth and stockholders equity. pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, we are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill balance annually or at any time when events occur, which could impact the value of our business segments. our determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of each of our reporting units fair market value with its carrying value. significant and unanticipated changes could require a charge for impairment in a future period that could substantially affect our reported earnings in a period of such change. in addition, such charges would reduce our consolidated net income. if such charges were included in our covenant calculations, it could result in noncompliance with certain financial covenants under our credit facilities in the period of such charge. we performed an impairment test in our fiscal third quarter 2008, and our analysis indicated that we had no impairment of goodwill. as a result of the decline in the price of our common stock in the fiscal fourth quarter 2008 to a value below the company per share book value, including goodwill, and given the present stock price volatility and uncertainty surrounding the global economy, the company performed an interim goodwill impairment test as of october 31, 2008 and determined that no impairment existed in either of its reporting units as of such date. we determine the fair value of our reporting units based on discounted cash flows and income valuation approach. in bridging our market capitalization, we used an average closing price of our common stock, and we applied a control premium based on our review of our premiums paid by third parties in comparable recent transactions. management will continue to monitor the relationship of cooper market capitalization to both its book value and tangible book value and to evaluate the carrying value of goodwill, and the company will perform its required annual goodwill impairment test during the fiscal third quarter 2009. goodwill impairment analysis and measurement is a process that requires significant judgment. if cooper common stock price continues to trade below book value per share, there are changes in market conditions or a future downturn in our business, or if the annual goodwill impairment test 26 table of contents indicates an impairment of our goodwill, the company may have to recognize a non-cash impairment of its goodwill that could be material and which could adversely affect our results of operations in the period recognized and also adversely effect our total assets, stockholders equity and financial position. increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where the company has higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where it has lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. in addition, the internal revenue service (irs) has been auditing the company income tax returns for the years 2005 2007, and we are also subject to the examination of its income tax returns by other tax authorities. the outcome of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. failure to utilize u.s. net operating losses could negatively impact our statement of operations. at october 31, 2008, we had u.s. net operating loss carryforwards (nols) of approximately $81.8 million. approximately $6.9 million of the nols expire in fiscal 2009. although we presently anticipate utilizing the entire nol in our tax filings, significant and unanticipated changes in our projected u.s. taxable income may result in our not fully utilizing the nol. should this occur, the tax effect of the unutilized nol would be reflected as a non-cash-related tax provision on our consolidated statements of operations. we are in the process of upgrading certain of our management information systems, and we cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruption of our business. we have implemented a management information system at our major locations and are in the process of implementing related systems for substantially all of our businesses worldwide. many other companies have had severe problems with computer system implementations of this nature and scope. we are using a controlled project plan, and we believe we have assigned adequate staffing and other resources to the projects to ensure successful implementation. however, we cannot assure that the design will meet our current and future business needs or that it will operate as designed. we are heavily dependent on such computer systems, and any failure or delay in the system implementation would cause a substantial interruption to our business, additional expense and loss of sales, customers and profits. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing and engineering personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. 27 table of contents provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, and our rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations and (ii) the authority of our board to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock with such terms as our board may determine. we will also be afforded the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have similar effects. our board of directors extended our preferred stock purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, pursuant to an amended rights agreement dated as of october 29, 2007. the rights agreement is intended to prevent abusive hostile takeover attempts by requiring a potential acquiror to negotiate the terms of an acquisition with our board of directors. however, it could have the effect of deterring or preventing an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of the our stockholders would be in favor of such acquisition, and could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to gain control of the company or to change existing management. risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion and distribution, as well as the export of medical devices manufactured in the united states to foreign markets. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. our medical devices require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements will not occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda may change its policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products or could impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires 28 table of contents us to seek clearance or approval for modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, the fda may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted, and failure to comply with fda regulations prohibiting a manufacturer from promoting a device for an unapproved, or off-label use could result in enforcement action by the fda, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil or criminal penalties. development and marketing of our products is subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse affect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. due to the movement towards harmonization of standards in the european union, we expect a changing regulatory environment in europe characterized by a shift from a country by-country regulatory system to a european union-wide single regulatory system. we cannot currently predict the timing of this harmonization. our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. a government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing or labeling errors or design defects. any voluntary or government mandated recall may divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers. any recall involving one of our products could also harm the reputation of the product and the company and would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results. 29 table of contents changes in government regulation of the healthcare industry as well as third-party payors efforts to control the costs of healthcare could materially adversely affect our business. in recent years, an increasing number of healthcare reform proposals have been formulated by the legislative and executive branches of the federal and state governments. these proposals could affect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. among the proposals under consideration are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that companies that sell products to hospitals and other healthcare providers must publicly disclose their prices, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of a government health insurance plan or plans that would cover all citizens. there also continue to be efforts at the federal level to introduce various insurance market reforms, expanded fraud and abuse and anti-referral legislation and further reductions in medicare and medicaid coverage and reimbursement. a broad range of both similar and more comprehensive healthcare reform initiatives is likely to be considered at the state level. although it is uncertain which, if any, of these or other proposals will be adopted, the potential for adoption of these proposals affects or may affect our ability to market our products. any adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. in addition, we may experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to additional legislative proposals or healthcare reform initiatives, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products. future legislation and regulations may adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. in addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the united states or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. these cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, widely publicized events concerning the safety risk of certain medical products, including the voluntary recalls of certain contact lens solutions in 2006 and 2007 by bausch &amp; lomb and advanced medical optics, respectively, may cause regulatory authorities, members of congress, the government accounting office, medical professionals and the general public to raise concerns about potential medical product safety issues. this increased attention may result in increased regulation and scrutiny of medical devices, such as, for example, the food and drug administration amendment act of 2007, which was recently enacted, providing for the establishment of a unique system for identifying medical devices, among other provisions. 30 table of contents the costs of complying with the requirements of federal laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. other federal legislation affects the manner in which we use and disclose health information. hipaa mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards for the electronic exchange of health information that may require significant and costly changes to current practices. hhs has released three rules to date mandating the use of new standards with respect to certain healthcare transactions and health information. the first rule requires the use of uniform standards for common healthcare transactions, including healthcare claims information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, plan premium payments and coordination of benefits. the second rule released by hhs imposes new standards relating to the privacy of individually identifiable health information. these standards not only require compliance with rules governing the use and disclosure of protected health information, but they also require an entity subject to hipaa to obtain satisfactory assurances that any of its business associates to whom such information is disclosed will safeguard the information. the third rule released by hhs establishes minimum standards for the security of electronic health information. while we do not believe we are directly regulated as a covered entity under hipaa, many of our customers are covered entities subject to hipaa. such customers may require us to enter into business associate agreements, which obligate us to safeguard certain health information we obtain in the course of servicing their customers, restrict the manner in which we use and disclose such information and impose liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. the costs of complying with these contractual obligations and potential liability associated with failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws and false claims laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if there is a change in law, regulation, administrative or judicial interpretation, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. note numbers refer to the notes to consolidated financial statements included inrisk factors 17 risk factors risks relating to our business, included in this report. employees on october 31, 2009, the company had about 6,600 employees. the company believes that its relations with its employees are good. new york stock exchange certification we submitted our 2009 annual section 12(a) ceo certification with the new york stock exchange. the certification was not qualified in any respect. additionally, we filed with the securities and exchange commission as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended october 31, 2009, the ceo and cfo certifications required under section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. available information the cooper companies, inc. internet address is http://www.coopercos.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec), are publicly available free of charge on our web site as soon as reasonably practicable. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains a web site that contains such reports, proxy and information statements and other information whose internet address is http://www.sec.gov. the company corporate governance principles, ethics and business conduct policy and charters of each standing committee of the board of directors are also posted on the company web site. the information on the company web site is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the sec. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive healthcare industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens segment, cvi faces intense competition from competitors products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our major competitors in the contact lens business, johnson &amp; johnson vision care, inc., ciba vision (owned by novartis ag) and bausch &amp; lomb, have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and larger manufacturing volumes than cvi. our major competitors in the specialty contact lens business offer competitive products and newer materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. moreover, silicone hydrogel lenses are gaining market acceptance in the specialty lens business, particularly in the u.s., and while we have recently introduced our own competitive silicone hydrogel specialty product, our late introduction of this product versus competitive products may not be sufficient to prevent erosion of our specialty lens market share and margins. the market for our non-specialty, commodity contact lenses is also intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to successfully introduce new products, on a timely basis in the united states, europe and japan, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, cvi also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, or that our competitors newer specialty lens products will not successfully erode cvi higher-margin specialty lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the women healthcare segment, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians and hospitals. csi competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche areas, some of which have 17 table of contents substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business. in the united states and globally, current market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth. the u.s. economy has been in a recession for the past two years and faces continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions such as inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and an unstable real estate market. countries globally are affected by similar systemic impacts. we continue to experience slower than historical growth in contact lens sales, particularly in the u.s. and continue to have lower than historical expectations for market growth in 2010. as a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. continued turbulence in the united states and international market and economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. if these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. if current market conditions do not improve, the demand for contact lenses may materially decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence. product innovations are important in the contact lens business in which cvi competes and in the niche areas of the healthcare industry in which csi competes. historically, we did not allocate substantial resources to new product development, but rather purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. however, since 2005, we have been investing more in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. although our focus is on products that will be marketable immediately or in the short to medium term rather than on funding longer-term, higher risk research and development projects, time commitments, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. competitors may also introduce new uses for contact lenses, such as for drug delivery or the control of myopia. failure to develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 18 table of contents if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them, assuming they receive necessary regulatory approvals, will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. in addition, we have been slower to introduce silicone hydrogel specialty contact lens products than our competitors. market acceptance and customer demand for these products are uncertain. the development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: acceptance of our products by eye care and women healthcare practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory requirements; adequate coverage and reimbursement by third party payors; the earlier release of competitive products, such as silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care and women healthcare industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, may limit demand for our products. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. if these new advances were to provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations for cvi are conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america and europe. approximately 63% and 62% of our net sales for cvi for the years ended october 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. further, we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; 19 table of contents we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of foreign regulatory requirements; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we do not have rights to market or sell our biofinity silicone hydrogel products in japan and we do not have regulatory approval to market and sell avaira in japan; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; and we may find it difficult to enter new markets such as china, india and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped distribution channels and business knowledge of these new markets. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. acquisitions that we may make may involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at csi, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks we could face with respect to acquisitions include: difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations and/or terminate our employees; 20 table of contents a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations and consequences thereof, such as whether a strategic or financial buyer would view such allocations as establishing a fair value for so-called tangible and intangible assets. we face risks associated with disruption of manufacturing and distribution operations and failure to develop new manufacturing processes that could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), enforcement action by the fda or other regulatory body if we are found to be in non-compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmpss) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials, such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. while we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete. cvi manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent a significant portion of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom and puerto rico. csi manufactures the majority of its products in trumbull, connecticut, stafford, texas, and pasadena, california. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we have generally not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. cvi distributes products out of rochester, new york, and the united kingdom and various smaller international distribution facilities. csi products are primarily distributed out of its facility in trumbull, connecticut. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, and our product sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda cgmp and qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state 21 table of contents authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to pass a cgmp, qsr or similar foreign inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. we are in the process of shutting down manufacturing facilities and have excess manufacturing capacity which may reduce our reported earnings. we are in the process of shutting down manufacturing facilities completely in norfolk, virginia and partially in adelaide, australia, and transferring production to our facilities in puerto rico and the united kingdom. changing production facilities on product lines creates operational risk and products having regulatory approvals tied to the closed facilities will require regulatory approval from the new facility. any failure to successfully transfer our production could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. in addition, depending on our market growth, we may have more production capacity than necessary to meet future demand. if we are unable to put purchased capacity into production, we may have to write-off new or existing lines which would adversely impact our reported earnings. we rely on independent suppliers for raw materials and we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice. we rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals and packaging materials. raw materials used by us are generally available from more than one source. however, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. asahikasei aime co. ltd. (asahi) is our sole supplier of the primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, biofinity and avaira. if asahi fails to supply sufficient material on a timely basis or at all for any reason, we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products and may need to switch to an alternative supplier in accordance with our agreement with asahi. a disruption in the supply of comfilcon a could disrupt production of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete in this important segment of the contact lens market. if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; 22 table of contents divert management attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, we cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. we also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. furthermore, enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. certain patents protecting our proclear line of products are due to expire in fiscal year 2011, which could allow competitors to market and sell products with similar attributes. if we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we could lose competitive advantage and be materially adversely affected. we rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. to maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. also, we might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. the laws of other foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our intellectual property could be subject to claims of infringement. our competitors in both the united states and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied 23 table of contents for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. claims that our products infringe the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. third parties have made, and it is possible that they will make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with their use of our technology. any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or reengineer our products, if feasible; divert management attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. in addition, consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product that is the subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing products, in the future. we face risks in connection with securities litigation. the company and several of its directors and officers have been named in a consolidated putative securities class action lawsuit and its directors and certain of its officers have been named in two consolidated derivative lawsuits, the nature and status of which are described in item 3. legal proceedings. the consolidated putative securities class action seeks unspecified damages from the company, and we are unable to estimate the range of potential losses that would be incurred if the plaintiffs in this action were to prevail, or to determine the total effect that it may have on our results of 24 table of contents operations, financial position and cash flows. however, legal expenses beyond those presently contemplated to be incurred through trial (currently scheduled for march 2010) or a settlement or adverse judgment on the merits of the action could have a material adverse effect on the company liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, securities litigation, irrespective of its merits, is costly to defend and diverts management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. the purported derivative lawsuits, which are at a very preliminary stage, do not seek damages from the company. however, derivative litigation is costly, and these lawsuits may divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. we are conducting a voluntary clean-up at one of our sites in the state of new york. although the workplan that we submitted to the state has been approved and we believe that the clean-up is proceeding in accordance with the workplan and our expectations, there can be no assurance that the clean-up will be completed within the timeframe and cost projected, that the expected results will be achieved, or that we will not identify alternate sources or higher levels of contamination. as such, there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection therewith. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. our substantial indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and 25 table of contents make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facility under certain circumstances; our credit facility and senior notes contain financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. in addition, current conditions in the global debt markets would make it difficult and costly to refinance our credit facility and senior notes. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain our desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we currently use, and may continue to use, interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to effectively manage our risks, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations and our foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations tend to affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the pound sterling, euro, japanese yen, swedish krona and canadian dollar. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. although we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our debt or receivables obligations, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. these hedges also serve to reduce any gain that we may have made based on favorable foreign currency fluctuations. in addition, to the extent we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. finally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies the translation of those results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings and can make it more difficult for our shareholders to understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-over-period comparative basis. we may be required to recognize impairment charges on goodwill, which would reduce our net income, consolidated net worth and stockholders equity. pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, we are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill balance annually or at any time when events occur, which could impact the value of our business segments. our determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of each of our reporting units fair market value with its carrying value. significant and unanticipated changes could require a charge for impairment in a future period that could substantially affect our reported earnings in a period of such change. in addition, such charges would reduce our consolidated net income. if such charges were included in our covenant calculations, it could result in noncompliance with certain financial covenants under our credit facilities in the period of such charge. 26 table of contents we performed our annual impairment test in our fiscal third quarter 2009, and our analysis indicated that we had no impairment of goodwill. the fair value of our reporting units was determined using a combination of the income approach, specifically the discounted cash flow method, and the market valuation approach. under the income approach, the fair value of the reporting unit is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows that the reporting unit is expected to generate over its remaining life. under the market approach, the value of the reporting unit is based on an analysis that compares the value of the reporting unit to values of publicly traded companies in similar lines of business. actual future results related to assumed variables could differ from our estimates. goodwill impairment analysis and measurement is a process that requires significant judgment. if our common stock price trades below book value per share, there are changes in market conditions or a future downturn in our business, or the annual goodwill impairment test indicates an impairment of our goodwill, the company may have to recognize a non-cash impairment of its goodwill that could be material, and could adversely affect our results of operations in the period recognized and also adversely affect our total assets, stockholders equity and financial condition. increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where the company has higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where it has lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. in addition, the internal revenue service (irs) has been auditing the company income tax returns for the years 2005 2007, and we are also subject to the examination of our income tax returns by other tax authorities. the outcome of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we have overseas manufacturing, administrative and sales offices and generate substantial revenues and profits in foreign jurisdictions. recently a number of countries, including the united states, have proposed changes to their tax laws, some of which affect taxation of earnings recognized in foreign jurisdictions. such changes in tax laws or their interpretation, if adopted, could adversely affect our effective tax rates and our results. in addition, the u.s. congress is currently considering a number of legislative proposals to reform the u.s. health care system. certain of these proposals contemplate that a portion of the cost of such proposals would be paid by imposing new fees or taxes on medical device companies. we cannot at this time anticipate which, if any, of these proposals will become law, the magnitude of taxes that would be imposed on the company under any enacted law, or whether any such taxes will materially affect our profitability. we are in the process of upgrading certain of our management information systems, and we cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruption of our business. we have implemented a management information system at our major locations and are in the process of implementing related systems for substantially all of our businesses worldwide. many other companies have had severe problems with computer system implementations of this nature and scope. 27 table of contents we are using a controlled project plan, and we believe we have assigned adequate staffing and other resources to the projects to ensure successful implementation. however, we cannot assure that the design will meet our current and future business needs or that it will operate as designed. we are heavily dependent on such computer systems, and any failure or delay in the system implementation would cause a substantial interruption to our business, additional expense and loss of sales, customers and profits. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing, engineering and scientific personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, and our rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations and (ii) the authority of our board to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock with such terms as our board may determine. we will also be afforded the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have similar effects. our board of directors extended our preferred stock purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, pursuant to an amended rights agreement dated as of october 29, 2007. the rights agreement is intended to prevent abusive hostile takeover attempts by requiring a potential acquiror to negotiate the terms of an acquisition with our board of directors. however, it could have the effect of deterring or preventing an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of our stockholders would be in favor of such acquisition, and could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to gain control of the company or to change existing management. risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion and distribution, as well as the export of medical devices manufactured in the united states to foreign markets. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. 28 table of contents our medical devices require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements will not occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda may change its policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products or could impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, the fda may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted, and failure to comply with fda regulations prohibiting a manufacturer from promoting a device for an unapproved, or off-label use could result in enforcement action by the fda, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil or criminal penalties. development and marketing of our products are subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. in the european economic area, a medical device can only be placed on the market if it is in conformity with the essential requirements set out in the european directives and implementing regulations that govern medical devices. these directives prescribe quality programs and standards which must be maintained in order to achieve required iso certification and to approve the use of ce marking. in order to maintain iso certification and ce marking quality benchmarks, firms quality systems and procedures are subjected to rigorous periodic inspections and reassessment audits. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have 29 table of contents not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. however, our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda cgmp and qsr regulations, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. a government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing or labeling errors or design defects. any voluntary or government mandated recall may divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers. any recall involving one of our products could also harm the reputation of the product and the company and would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results. changes in legislation and government regulation of the healthcare industry as well as third-party payors efforts to control the costs of healthcare could materially adversely affect our business. in recent years, an increasing number of healthcare reform proposals have been formulated by the legislative and executive branches of the federal and state governments. the current administration has made health care reform a priority, and there have been a significant number of federal legislative initiatives and reform measures this past year. pending and future legislative proposals could effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. among the proposals under consideration are annual, non-deductible fees on manufacturers or importers of certain prescription drugs, biologics or medical devices offered for sale in the united states, price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to expand the availability of health insurance, requirements that companies that sell products to hospitals and other healthcare providers must publicly disclose their prices, and the creation of a government health insurance plan or plan designed to ensure coverage for all citizens. federal legislation also has been introduced to avoid a 21.2 percent reduction in 2010 payments to physicians for services provided to medicare patients by revising the applicable statutory formula used to develop the medicare payment rates. in past years, annual federal legislation avoided reductions stemming from the formula, and current pending legislation would revise the formula to prevent the need for annual legislative adjustments in this area. this year, new health care reform measures that were passed include appropriation of federal funds to conduct, support or synthesize research that compares and evaluates the risk and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products, among other things. the comparative effectiveness research is intended to improve the quality of health care, but how the research will impact coverage, reimbursement or other policies developed by health insurance companies remains unclear. there also continues to be efforts at the federal level to introduce expanded fraud and abuse and anti-referral legislation and to further reduce certain medicare and medicaid expenditures by 30 table of contents revising coverage and reimbursement policies. a broad range of both similar and more comprehensive healthcare reform initiatives is likely to be considered at the state level. although it is uncertain which, if any, of these or other proposals will be adopted, the potential for adoption of these proposals affects or may affect our ability to market our products. any adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. in addition, we may experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to additional legislative proposals or healthcare reform initiatives, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products. future legislation and regulations may adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. in addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the united states or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. these cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the costs of complying with the requirements of federal laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. other federal legislation affects the manner in which we use and disclose health information. the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards for the electronic exchange of health information that may require significant and costly changes to current practices. the department of health and human services (hhs) has released several rules mandating the use of specified standards with respect to certain healthcare transactions and health information. the electronic transactions rule requires the use of uniform standards for common healthcare transactions, including healthcare claims information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, plan premium payments and coordination of benefits. the privacy rule imposes standards governing the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. the security rule released by hhs establishes minimum standards for the security of electronic health information, and requires the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards. additionally, the health information technology for economic and clinical health (hitech) act of 2009 was signed into law as part of the stimulus package in february 2009. previously, hipaa directly regulated only certain covered entities, such as health care providers and health plans. under hitech, certain of hipaa privacy and security standards are now also directly applicable to covered entities business associates. as a result, business associates are now subject to civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with applicable privacy and security rule requirements. moreover, hitech creates a new requirement to report any breach of unsecured, individually identifiable health information and imposes penalties on entities that fail to do so. while we do not believe that we are a covered entity under hipaa, many of our customers are covered entities subject to hipaa. such customers may require us to enter into business associate 31 table of contents agreements, which obligate us to safeguard certain health information we obtain in the course of servicing their customers, restrict the manner in which we use and disclose such information and impose liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. pursuant to the hitech act, as business associates, we are now additionally subject to direct governmental enforcement for failure to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. the costs of complying with these contractual obligations, new legal and regulatory requirements, and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws and false claims laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. indeed, recent changes in state laws and model codes of ethics have already required us to alter certain of our compliance efforts. for example, in april of 2009, massachusetts issued regulations governing the conduct of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with respect to healthcare practitioners. this regulation became effective on july 1, 2009 and sets forth what medical device manufacturers may and may not permissibly do with respect to providing meals, sponsoring continuing medical education and otherwise providing payments or items of economic benefit to healthcare practitioners located within the state. additionally, the regulation requires medical device manufacturers to have in place robust fraud and abuse compliance programs. other states (e.g., california and nevada) have adopted similar laws. the advanced medical technology association (advamed), a trade association representing the interests of medical device manufacturers, has also recently released a revised code of ethics outlining permissible interactions with health care professionals. this code became effective july 1, 2009. these laws, regulations and guidance documents act to limit our marketing practices, require the dedication of resources to ensure compliance, and expose us to additional liabilities. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, changes in these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to further change our business practices or subject our existing business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. note numbers refer to the notes to consolidated financial statements included inrisk factors 16 risk factors risks relating to our business, included in this report. employees on october 31, 2010, the company had about 6,800 employees. the company believes that its relations with its employees are good. new york stock exchange certification we submitted our 2010 annual section 12(a) ceo certification with the new york stock exchange. the certification was not qualified in any respect. additionally, we filed with the securities and exchange commission as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended october 31, 2010, the ceo and cfo certifications required under section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. available information the cooper companies, inc. internet address is http://www.coopercos.com. the information on the company web site is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the sec. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec), are publicly available free of charge on our web site as soon as reasonably practicable. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains a web site that contains such reports, proxy and information statements and other information whose internet address is http://www.sec.gov. the company corporate governance principles, ethics and business conduct policy and charters of each standing committee of the board of directors are also posted on the company web site. 15 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive healthcare industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens segment, cvi faces intense competition from competitors products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our major competitors in the contact lens business, johnson &amp; johnson vision care, inc., ciba vision (owned by novartis ag) and bausch &amp; lomb, have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and larger manufacturing volumes than cvi. they also offer competitive products and differentiated materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. the market for contact lenses is intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to introduce new products successfully, on a timely basis in the united states, europe and japan, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, cvi also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, or that our competitors newer contact lens products will not successfully erode cvi contact lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the women healthcare segment, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians and hospitals. csi competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche areas, some of which have substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. 16 table of contents acquisitions that we have made and may make in the future involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at csi, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks we could face with respect to acquisitions include: difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations or terminate our employees; a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations. product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence. product innovations are important in the contact lens business in which cvi competes and in the niche areas of the healthcare industry in which csi competes. historically, we did not allocate substantial resources to new product development, but rather purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. however, since 2005, we have been investing more in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. although our focus is on products that will be marketable immediately or in the short to medium term rather than on funding longer-term, higher risk research and development projects, time commitments, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies, such as contact lenses with anti-microbial or anti-allergenic features, that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. competitors may also introduce new uses for contact lenses, such as for drug delivery or the control of myopia. failure to develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 17 table of contents if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them, assuming they receive necessary regulatory approvals, will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. in addition, we have been slower to introduce new silicone hydrogel contact lens products than our competitors which put these products at a competitive disadvantage. market acceptance and customer demand for these products are uncertain. the development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: acceptance of our products by eye care and women healthcare practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory requirements; adequate coverage and reimbursement by third party payors; the earlier release of competitive products, such as silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care and women healthcare industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, may limit demand for our products. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. if these new advances provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations for cvi are conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america and europe. approximately two-thirds of our net sales for cvi for the fiscal years ended october 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; 18 table of contents we may find it difficult to grow in emerging markets such as china, india and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped distribution channels and business knowledge of these new markets; tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of foreign regulatory requirements; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; and we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business. in the united states and globally, market and economic conditions have been unprecedented over the past few years and challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth. the u.s. economy has experienced a recession and faces continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions such as high energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and an unstable real estate market. foreign countries are affected by similar systemic impacts. we continue to experience slower than historical growth in contact lens sales, particularly in the u.s. and continue to have lower than historical expectations for market growth in 2011. as a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may again be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. continued turbulence in the united states and international market and economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. if these market conditions return, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 table of contents we face risks associated with disruption of manufacturing and distribution operations and failure to develop new manufacturing processes that could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), enforcement action by the fda or other regulatory body if we are found to be in non-compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. while we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete. cvi manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent a significant portion of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom and puerto rico. csi manufactures the majority of its products in trumbull, connecticut, stafford, texas, and pasadena, california. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we have generally not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. cvi distributes products out of rochester, new york, the united kingdom, belgium and various smaller international distribution facilities. csi products are primarily distributed out of its facility in trumbull, connecticut. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, and our product sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda cgmp for medical devices, known as the qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to pass a cgmp, qsr or similar foreign inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. 20 table of contents we rely on independent suppliers for raw materials and we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice. we rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals and packaging materials. raw materials used in our operations are generally available from more than one source. however, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. we have purchased asahikasei aime co. ltd. to achieve greater control over certain of the raw materials used in our silicone hydrogel contact lenses. however, asahikasei finechem (asahi) remains our sole supplier of the primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, biofinity and avaira. we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products if asahi fails to supply sufficient material on a timely basis or at all for any reason and/or we need to switch to an alternative supplier in accordance with our agreement with asahi. a disruption in the supply of comfilcon a could disrupt production of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete in this important segment of the contact lens market. if we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; divert management attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. we also cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. 21 table of contents we also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. certain patents protecting our proclear line of products will expire in fiscal year 2011, which will allow competitors to market and sell products with similar attributes. upon such expiration, we will lose some competitive advantage if we are unable to maintain the proprietary trade secret nature of our technologies. we rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. to maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. we also might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. the laws of other foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products or processes could be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others. our competitors in both the united states and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. claims that our products, business methods or processes infringe upon the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales of products incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. third parties have made, and may make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with their use of our technology. any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or reengineer our products, if feasible; divert management attention and resources; or 22 table of contents require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product that is the subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing products, in the future. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 23 table of contents require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facility under certain circumstances. our credit facility and senior notes contain financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain our desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we currently use, and may continue to use, interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to manage our risks effectively, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations and our foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the pound sterling, euro, japanese yen and canadian dollar. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. although from time to time we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our debt or receivables obligations, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. these hedges may also serve to reduce any gain that we may have made based on favorable foreign currency fluctuations. in addition, to the extent we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. because our consolidated financial results are reported in dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies the translation of those results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings and can make it more difficult for our shareholders to understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-over-period comparative basis. 24 table of contents increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where the company has higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where it has lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. in addition, the internal revenue service (irs) has been auditing the company income tax returns for the years 2005 2007, and we are also subject to the examination of our income tax returns by other tax authorities. the outcome of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we have overseas manufacturing, administrative and sales offices and generate substantial revenues and profits in foreign jurisdictions. recently, a number of countries, including the united states, have proposed changes to their tax laws, some of which affect taxation of earnings recognized in foreign jurisdictions. such changes in tax laws or their interpretation, if adopted, could adversely affect our effective tax rates and our results. the recently enacted health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 imposes a new excise tax on medical device companies starting with u.s. domestic sales made after december 31, 2012. while cvi is not affected, csi will likely be affected by this new tax. we cannot at this time anticipate the magnitude of this new tax that would be imposed on us as there are significant uncertainties concerning key definitions and terms within the law. we manage our businesses utilizing complex computer systems that are regularly maintained and upgraded, an interruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to expend excessive costs. we utilize complex computer systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units and we have a continuous improvement strategy in place that keep our systems and overarching technology stable and in line with business needs and growth. regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are typical and expected. we employ controlled change management methodologies to plan, test and execute all such system upgrades and improvements, and we believe that we assign adequate staffing and other resources to projects to ensure successful implementation. however, we cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. we cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing, engineering and scientific personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. 25 table of contents provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, and our rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations and (ii) the authority of our board to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock with such terms as our board may determine. we also have the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have similar effects. our board of directors extended our preferred stock purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, pursuant to an amended rights agreement dated as of october 29, 2007 that expires on october 29, 2017. the rights agreement is intended to prevent abusive hostile takeover attempts by requiring a potential acquiror to negotiate the terms of an acquisition with our board of directors. however, it could have the effect of deterring or preventing an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of our stockholders would be in favor of such acquisition, and could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to gain control of the company or to change existing management. risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion and distribution, as well as the export of medical devices manufactured in the united states to foreign markets. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. our medical devices require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such clearances and approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements will not occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda may change its policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products or could impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance 26 table of contents or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, the fda may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted, and failure to comply with fda regulations prohibiting a manufacturer from promoting a device for an unapproved, or off-label use could result in enforcement action by the fda, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil or criminal penalties. development and marketing of our products are subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. in the european economic area, a medical device can only be placed on the market if it is in conformity with the essential requirements set out in the european directives and implementing regulations that govern medical devices. these directives prescribe quality programs and standards which must be maintained in order to achieve required iso certification and to approve the use of ce marking. in order to maintain iso certification and ce marking quality benchmarks, firms quality systems and procedures are subjected to rigorous periodic inspections and reassessment audits. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. however, our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda qsr regulations, which require manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design 27 table of contents or manufacture. a government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing or labeling errors or design defects. any voluntary or government mandated recall may divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers. any recall involving one of our products could also harm the reputation of the product and the company and would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results. changes in legislation and government regulation of the healthcare industry as well as third-party payors efforts to control the costs of healthcare could materially adversely affect our business. in recent years, an increasing number of healthcare reform proposals have been formulated by the legislative and executive branches of the federal and state governments. in march 2010, the president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act, which we refer to collectively as the health care reform law. the health care reform law makes extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the united states. among the provisions of the health care reform law of greatest importance to the medical device industry are the following: a deductible 2.3 percent excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the united states, with limited exceptions, effective 2013; a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; new reporting and disclosure requirements on medical device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective march 30, 2013; payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models, beginning on or before january 1, 2013; creation of the independent payment advisory board which, beginning in 2014, will have authority to recommend certain changes to reduce medicare spending and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if congress doesn t act on the recommendations; and establishment of a center for medicare innovation at the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower medicare and medicaid spending, beginning by january 1, 2011. these measures could result in decreased net revenues from our medical device products and decrease potential returns from our development efforts. many of the details regarding the implementation of the health care reform law are yet to be determined, and at this time, it remains unclear the full effect that the health care reform law would have on our business. also, any adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. in addition, we may experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to additional legislative proposals or healthcare reform initiatives, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products. future legislation and regulations may adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. 28 table of contents in addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the united states or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. these cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the costs of complying with the requirements of federal laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. other federal legislation affects the manner in which we use and disclose health information. the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards for the electronic exchange of health information that may require significant and costly changes to current practices. the united states department of health and human services (hhs) has released several rules mandating the use of specified standards with respect to certain healthcare transactions and health information. the electronic transactions rule requires the use of uniform standards for common healthcare transactions, including healthcare claims information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, plan premium payments and coordination of benefits. the privacy rule imposes standards governing the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. the security rule released by hhs establishes minimum standards for the security of electronic health information, and requires the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards. additionally, the health information technology for economic and clinical health (hitech) act of 2009 was signed into law as part of the america recovery and reinvestment act in february 2009. previously, hipaa directly regulated only certain covered entities, such as health care providers and health plans. under the hitech act, certain of hipaa privacy and security standards are now also directly applicable to covered entities business associates. as a result, business associates are now subject to civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with applicable privacy and security rule requirements. moreover, the hitech act set forth new notification requirements for health data security breaches, increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce hipaa and seek attorney fees and costs associated with pursuing federal actions. while we do not believe that we are a covered entity or a business associate under hipaa, many of our customers may be covered entities or business associates subject to hipaa. some customers as an expectation of transacting business with us may require us to enter into business associate agreements, which would obligate us to safeguard and restrict the manner in which we use certain protected health information (as defined by hipaa) we obtain in the course of our commercial relationship with them, triggering potential liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. alternatively, some customers may limit the scope of our commercial relationship with them with regard to our access to certain protected health information. pursuant to the hitech act, if the government determines that we are a business associate, we could be additionally subject to direct governmental enforcement for 29 table of contents failure to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. the costs of complying with these contractual obligations and new legal and regulatory requirements, and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws and false claims laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. indeed, recent changes in state laws and model codes of ethics have already required us to alter certain of our compliance efforts. for example, in april of 2009, massachusetts issued regulations governing the conduct of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with respect to healthcare practitioners. this regulation became effective on july 1, 2009 and sets forth what medical device manufacturers may and may not permissibly do with respect to providing meals, sponsoring continuing medical education and otherwise providing payments or items of economic benefit to healthcare practitioners located within the state. additionally, the regulation requires medical device manufacturers to have in place robust fraud and abuse compliance programs. other states (e.g., california, vermont and nevada) have adopted similar laws. the advanced medical technology association (advamed), a trade association representing the interests of medical device manufacturers, has also recently released a revised code of ethics outlining permissible interactions with health care professionals. this code became effective july 1, 2009. these laws, regulations and guidance documents act to limit our marketing practices, require the dedication of resources to ensure compliance, and expose us to additional liabilities. in addition, the recent health care reform law, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and certain criminal healthcare fraud statutes so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. the health care reform law also provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of these statutes constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil false claims act or the civil monetary penalties statute. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, changes in these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to further change our business practices or subject our existing business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. note numbers refer to the notes to consolidated financial statements included inrisk factors 17 risk factors risks relating to our business, included in this report. employees on october 31, 2011, the company had about 7,400 employees. the company believes that its relations with its employees are good. new york stock exchange certification we submitted our 2011 annual section 12(a) ceo certification with the new york stock exchange. the certification was not qualified in any respect. additionally, we filed with the securities and exchange commission as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended october 31, 2011, the ceo and cfo certifications required under section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. 15 table of contents available information the cooper companies, inc. internet address is http://www.coopercos.com. the information on the company web site is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the sec. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec), are publicly available free of charge on our web site as soon as reasonably practicable. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains a web site that contains such reports, proxy and information statements and other information whose internet address is http://www.sec.gov. the company corporate governance principles, ethics and business conduct policy and charters of each standing committee of the board of directors are also posted on the company web site. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. our business faces significant risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. risks relating to our business we operate in the highly competitive healthcare industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. in our soft contact lens business, coopervision faces intense competition from competitors products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. our major competitors in the contact lens business, johnson &amp; johnson vision care, inc., ciba vision (owned by novartis ag) and bausch &amp; lomb, inc., have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and larger manufacturing volumes than coopervision. they also offer competitive products and differentiated materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. the market for contact lenses is intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel based products. our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to introduce new products successfully, on a timely basis in the americas, emea and asia pacific, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capabilities. our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. to a lesser extent, coopervision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, or that our competitors newer contact lens products will not successfully erode coopervision contact lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the women healthcare market, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of product information to physicians and hospitals. coopersurgical competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche areas, some of which have substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. acquisitions that we have made and may make in the future involve numerous risks. we have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. as part of our growth strategy, particularly at coopersurgical, we intend to 17 table of contents continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks we could face with respect to acquisitions include: difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees; an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; diversion of management attention away from other business concerns; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities of the acquired company; expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations or terminate our employees; a dilution of earnings per share; and risks inherent in accounting allocations. product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence. product innovations are important in the contact lens market in which coopervision competes and in the niche areas of the healthcare industry in which coopersurgical competes. historically, we did not allocate substantial resources to new product development, but rather purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. however, since 2005, we have been investing more in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. although our focus is on products that will be marketable immediately or in the short to medium term rather than on funding longer-term, higher risk research and development projects, time commitments, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval. in addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies, such as contact lenses with anti-microbial or anti-allergenic features, that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. competitors may also introduce new uses for contact lenses, such as for drug delivery or the control of myopia. failure to develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them, assuming they receive necessary regulatory approvals, will achieve 18 table of contents market acceptance or generate operating profits. in addition, we have been slower to introduce new silicone hydrogel contact lens products than our competitors which put these products at a competitive disadvantage. market acceptance and customer demand for these products are uncertain. the development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: acceptance of our products by eye care and women healthcare practitioners; the cost competitiveness of our products; consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; regulatory requirements; adequate coverage and reimbursement by third party payors; the earlier release of competitive products, such as silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. new medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. technological developments in the eye care and women healthcare industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, may limit demand for our products. corneal refractive surgical procedures such as lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. if these new advances provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. we cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our current operations for coopervision are conducted and located outside the united states, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. we have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in north america and europe. approximately two-thirds of our net sales for coopervision for the fiscal years ended october 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were derived from the sale of products outside the united states. we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as japan because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; we may find it difficult to grow in emerging markets such as china, india and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped distribution channels, regulatory restrictions and business knowledge of these new markets; tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the united states, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; 19 table of contents we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of united states and foreign compliance and regulatory requirements such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the dodd-frank act and the u.k. bribery act; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the united states; failure to comply with united states department of commerce export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; and we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. however, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business. in the united states and globally, market and economic conditions have been unprecedented over the past few years and challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth. the u.s. economy has experienced a recession and faces continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions such as high energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and an unstable real estate market. foreign countries, in particular the euro zone, are affected by similar systemic impacts. as a result, we continue to have lower than historical expectations for market growth in fiscal 2012. continued turbulence in the united states and international market and economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. if these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face risks associated with disruption of manufacturing and distribution operations and failure to develop new manufacturing processes that could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. we manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), enforcement action by the fda or other regulatory body if we are found to 20 table of contents be in non-compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cgmp) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, materials such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. while we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete. coopervision manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent the majority of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in the united kingdom and puerto rico. coopersurgical manufactures the majority of its products in trumbull, connecticut, stafford, texas, and pasadena, california. we manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. before we can use a second manufacturing site, we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities, and because this process is expensive, we have generally not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. if there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. coopervision distributes products out of west henrietta, new york, the united kingdom, belgium and various smaller international distribution facilities. our distribution center in west henrietta, new york, was recently inspected by fda and, on december 7, 2011, we received a warning letter dated december 5, 2011, stating that certain labeling and packaging operations conducted at the facility deviate from applicable cgmp requirements. we are working with the fda to address the observations cited in the warning letter. the warning letter does not restrict or prohibit the sale or marketing of our products, nor does it require us to recall any products distributed from the center. however, if we fail to correct the observations to the fda satisfaction, we could be subject to an enforcement action, such as a seizure, fda-mandated recall, or other operating restrictions on the facility, that could have a material adverse effect on our business. coopersurgical products are primarily distributed out of its facility in trumbull, connecticut. any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, and our product sales and profitability could suffer. our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the fda cgmp for medical devices, known as the qsr regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. we also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. in addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the fda, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. failure to pass a cgmp, qsr or similar foreign inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of 21 table of contents products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. as a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. we are currently working with the fda to address a warning letter dated december 5, 2011, which was issued by the fda following an inspection of the labeling and packaging operations performed at our distribution center in west henrietta, new york. if we fail to resolve the observations cited in the warning letter to the fda satisfaction, we would be subject to the foregoing regulatory enforcement actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we rely on independent suppliers for raw materials and we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice. we rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals and packaging materials. raw materials used in our operations are generally available from more than one source. however, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. we have purchased asahikasei aime co. ltd. to achieve greater control over certain of the raw materials used in our silicone hydrogel contact lenses. however, asahikasei finechem (asahi) remains our sole supplier of the primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, biofinity and avaira. we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products if asahi or other suppliers fail to supply sufficient material on a timely basis or at all for any reason and/or we need to switch to an alternative supplier. a disruption in the supply of raw materials could disrupt production of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete in this important segment of the contact lens market. if we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business could suffer. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. in addition, litigation can: be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; divert management attention and resources; or require us to license our intellectual property. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. patent applications in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since 22 table of contents publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. we also cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. we also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. certain patents protecting our proclear line of products expired in fiscal year 2011, which allows competitors to market and sell products with similar attributes. we rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. to maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. we also might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. the laws of foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products or processes could be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others. our competitors in both the united states and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. claims that our products, business methods or processes infringe upon the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales of products incorporating our technology. significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. third parties have made, and may make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology. any claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend; 23 table of contents cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or reengineer our products, if feasible; divert management attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. a successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. we could experience losses from product liability claims, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. we also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product that is the subject of a claim or recall, or has been counterfeited. we handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing products, in the future. we face risks related to environmental matters. our facilities are subject to a broad range of united states federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. we have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. as a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. 24 table of contents our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facility under certain circumstances. our credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. in order to maintain our desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we currently use, and may continue to use, interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. we may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to manage our risks effectively, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations and our foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position. our most significant currency exposures are the british pound sterling, euro, japanese yen and canadian dollar. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than u.s. dollars. although from time to time we enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our debt or receivables obligations, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. these hedges may also serve to reduce any gain that we may have made based on favorable foreign currency fluctuations. in addition, to the extent we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. because our consolidated financial results are reported in dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies the translation of those results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings and can make it more difficult for our shareholders to understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-over-period comparative basis. 25 table of contents increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where the company has higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where it has lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. in addition, the internal revenue service (irs) issued a notice of deficiency in connection with its audit of the company income tax returns for the years 2005 and 2006. the notice asserts that the company is subject to additional taxes due to a proposed adjustment under the anti-deferral provisions of subpart f of the internal revenue code. if sustained, such taxes should be offset by the company existing federal net operating loss carryforwards leaving a $1.2 million balance of proposed taxes owed. the company intends to defend its positions taken in its income tax returns vigorously. however, if the irs contentions were sustained, the company existing federal net operating loss carryforwards could be materially reduced, which could result in a material adverse effect on the company future net income. we are also subject to the examination of our income tax returns by other tax authorities and the outcome of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. we have overseas manufacturing, administrative and sales offices and generate substantial revenues and profits in foreign jurisdictions. recently, a number of countries, including the united states, have proposed changes to their tax laws, some of which affect taxation of earnings recognized in foreign jurisdictions. such changes in tax laws or their interpretation, if adopted, could adversely affect our effective tax rates and our results. for example, the recently enacted health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 imposes a new excise tax of 2-3 percent of the price for which certain medical devices are sold. coopervision is not affected by this new tax. almost all of coopersurgical sales will be subject to this new tax that takes effect january 1, 2013. we cannot at this time anticipate the magnitude of this new tax that would be imposed on us as there are significant uncertainties concerning key definitions and terms within the law. volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan for employees in the united states. this defined benefit pension plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, discount rates and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plan and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plan. a significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. we manage our businesses utilizing complex computer systems that are regularly maintained and upgraded, an interruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to expend excessive costs. we utilize complex computer systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units and we have a continuous improvement strategy in 26 table of contents place that keep our systems and overarching technology stable and in line with business needs and growth. regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are typical and expected. we employ controlled change management methodologies to plan, test and execute all such system upgrades and improvements, and we believe that we assign adequate staffing and other resources to projects to ensure successful implementation. however, we cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. we cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems. if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. if we fail to recruit and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. the success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing, engineering and scientific personnel. competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. provisions of our governing documents and delaware law, and our rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. certain provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may inhibit changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations and (ii) the authority of our board to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock with such terms as our board may determine. we also have the protections of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which could have similar effects. our board of directors extended our preferred stock purchase rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, pursuant to an amended rights agreement dated as of october 29, 2007 that expires on october 29, 2017. the rights agreement is intended to prevent abusive hostile takeover attempts by requiring a potential acquirer to negotiate the terms of an acquisition with our board of directors. however, it could have the effect of deterring or preventing an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of our stockholders would be in favor of such acquisition, and could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to gain control of the company or to change existing management. risks relating to government regulation of manufacture and sale of our products our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. in the united states, the fda regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion and distribution, as well as the export of medical devices manufactured in the united states to foreign markets. our failure to comply with fda regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. 27 table of contents our medical devices require clearance or approval by the fda before they can be commercially distributed in the united states and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. medical devices may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming. there can be no assurance that such clearances and approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements will not occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. in addition, the fda may change its policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products or could impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. for example, the fda has recently been reviewing the premarket clearance process in response to internal and external concerns regarding the 510(k) program. in january 2011, the fda announced a plan of action that included twenty-five action items designed to make the process more rigorous and transparent. since then the fda has implemented some changes intended to improve its premarket programs. some of these changes and proposals under consideration could impose additional regulatory requirements on us that could delay our ability to obtain new 510(k) clearances for our products, increase the cost of compliance, or restrict our ability to maintain our current clearances. modifications and enhancements to a medical device also require a new fda clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. the fda requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any manufacturer decision. we have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the fda will agree with our decisions. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, the fda may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted, and failure to comply with fda regulations prohibiting a manufacturer from promoting a device for an unapproved, or off-label use could result in enforcement action by the fda, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil or criminal penalties. development and marketing of our products are subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the fda. in the european economic area, a medical device can only be placed on the market if it is in conformity with the essential requirements set out in the european directives and implementing 28 table of contents regulations that govern medical devices. these directives prescribe quality programs and standards which must be maintained in order to achieve required iso certification and to approve the use of ce marking. in order to maintain iso certification and ce marking quality benchmarks, firms quality systems and procedures are subjected to rigorous periodic inspections and reassessment audits. in many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. to date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. however, our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. after a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the fda qsr regulations, which require manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to fda or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. medical device manufacturers, such as coopervision and coopersurgical, may under their own initiative recall a product if a reasonable possibility of serious injury or any material deficiency in a device is found. for example, in august of 2011, coopervision in collaboration with the fda initiated a recall of limited lots of avaira toric contact lenses which in november of 2011 was expanded to include limited lots of avaira sphere contact lenses. this recall is ongoing and requires authorization of the fda to return the avaira toric product to market. recalls of any of our products, including any expansion of the ongoing avaira recall, may divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a recall, including the ongoing avaira recall, could harm our reputation with customers and consumers which could reduce the sales of our products. in addition, the fda or other foreign governmental agencies may implement enforcement actions in connection with a recall which could impair our product offerings and be harmful to our business and financial results. changes in legislation and government regulation of the healthcare industry as well as third-party payors efforts to control the costs of healthcare could materially adversely affect our business. in recent years, an increasing number of healthcare reform proposals have been formulated by the legislative and executive branches of the united states federal and state governments. in march 2010, the president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act, which we refer to collectively as the health care reform law. the health care reform law makes extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the united states. among the provisions of the health care reform law of greatest importance to the medical device industry are the following: a deductible 2.3 percent excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the united states, with limited exceptions, effective january 1, 2013; 29 table of contents a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; new reporting and disclosure requirements on medical device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective march 30, 2013; payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models, beginning on or before january 1, 2013; creation of the independent payment advisory board which, beginning in 2014, will have authority to recommend certain changes to reduce medicare spending and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if congress doesn t act on the recommendations; and establishment of a center for medicare innovation at the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower medicare and medicaid spending, beginning by january 1, 2011. these measures could result in decreased net revenues from our medical device products and decrease potential returns from our development efforts. many of the details regarding the implementation of the health care reform law are yet to be determined, and at this time, it remains unclear the full effect that the health care reform law would have on our business. also, any adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. in addition, we may experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to additional legislative proposals or healthcare reform initiatives, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products. future legislation and regulations may adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products. we cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. in addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the united states or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. these cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the costs of complying with the requirements of federal laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. other federal legislation affects the manner in which we use and disclose health information. the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards for the electronic exchange of health information that may require significant and costly changes to current practices. the united states department of health and human services (hhs) has released several rules mandating the use of specified standards with respect to certain healthcare transactions and health information. the electronic transactions rule 30 table of contents requires the use of uniform standards for common healthcare transactions, including healthcare claims information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, plan premium payments and coordination of benefits. the privacy rule imposes standards governing the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. the security rule released by hhs establishes minimum standards for the security of electronic health information, and requires the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards. additionally, the health information technology for economic and clinical health (hitech) act of 2009 was signed into law as part of the america recovery and reinvestment act in february 2009. previously, hipaa directly regulated only certain covered entities, such as health care providers and health plans. under the hitech act, certain of hipaa privacy and security standards are now also directly applicable to covered entities business associates. as a result, business associates are now subject to civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with applicable privacy and security rule requirements. moreover, the hitech act set forth new notification requirements for health data security breaches, increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce hipaa and seek attorney fees and costs associated with pursuing federal actions. while we do not believe that we are a covered entity or a business associate under hipaa, many of our customers may be covered entities or business associates subject to hipaa. some customers as an expectation of transacting business with us may require us to enter into business associate agreements, which would obligate us to safeguard and restrict the manner in which we use certain protected health information (as defined by hipaa) we obtain in the course of our commercial relationship with them, triggering potential liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. alternatively, some customers may limit the scope of our commercial relationship with them with regard to our access to certain protected health information. pursuant to the hitech act, if the government determines that we are a business associate, we could be additionally subject to direct governmental enforcement for failure to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. the costs of complying with these contractual obligations and new legal and regulatory requirements, and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws and false claims laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration health programs and tricare. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. indeed, recent changes in state laws and model codes of ethics have already required us to alter certain of our 31 table of contents compliance efforts. for example, in april of 2009, massachusetts issued regulations governing the conduct of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with respect to healthcare practitioners. this regulation became effective on july 1, 2009 and sets forth what medical device manufacturers may and may not permissibly do with respect to providing meals, sponsoring continuing medical education and otherwise providing payments or items of economic benefit to healthcare practitioners located within the state. additionally, the regulation requires medical device manufacturers to have in place robust fraud and abuse compliance programs. other states (e.g., california, vermont and nevada) have adopted similar laws. the advanced medical technology association (advamed), a trade association representing the interests of medical device manufacturers, has also recently released a revised code of ethics outlining permissible interactions with health care professionals. this code became effective july 1, 2009. these laws, regulations and guidance documents act to limit our marketing practices, require the dedication of resources to ensure compliance, and expose us to additional liabilities. in addition, the recent health care reform law, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and certain criminal healthcare fraud statutes so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. the health care reform law also provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of these statutes constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil false claims act or the civil monetary penalties statute. any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, changes in these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to further change our business practices or subject our existing business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. note numbers refer to the notes to consolidated financial statements included in