regulation general we and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive and comprehensive regulation on both the federal and state level in the u.s. and by the financial services authority (fsa) in the u.k. the laws and regulations with which we must comply are subject to change, and new and existing laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations. as a result of the financial market and economic challenges over the past few years, regulation and the cost of compliance with regulation has continued to increase in both the u.s. and internationally. insurance regulatory oversight our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to oversight by insurance departments in jurisdictions in which they do business and by the u.s. department of labor (dol) on a national basis, primarily for the protection of policyholders. unum limited is subject to regulation by the fsa in the u.k. the state insurance departments in the u.s. and the fsa in the u.k. have broad administrative powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business and, in particular, monitor the manner in which an insurance company offers, sells, and administers its products. this monitoring and approval process may include reviewing sales practices, including the content and use of advertising materials and the licensing and appointing of agents and brokers, as well as review and/or approval of underwriting, claims, pricing, and customer service practices. the dol enforces a comprehensive federal statute which regulates claims paying fiduciary responsibilities and reporting and disclosure requirements for most employee benefit plans. our domestic insurance subsidiaries must meet the standards and tests for investments imposed by state insurance laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled. domestic insurance subsidiaries operate under insurance laws which require they establish and carry, as liabilities, statutory reserves to meet policyholder obligations. these reserves are verified periodically by various regulators. our domestic insurance subsidiaries are examined periodically by examiners from their states of domicile and by other states in which they are licensed to conduct business. the domestic examinations have traditionally emphasized financial matters from the perspective of protection of policyholders, but they can and have covered other subjects that an examining state may be interested in reviewing, such as market conduct issues. other states more typically perform market conduct examinations that include a review of a company's sales practices, including advertising and licensing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, customer service, and identification and handling of unclaimed property to determine compliance with state laws. our domestic insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessments by state insurance guaranty associations to cover the proportional cost of insolvent or failed insurers. capital requirements risk based capital (rbc) standards for u.s. life insurance companies have been prescribed by the national association of insurance commissioners (naic). the domiciliary states of our u.s. insurance subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the rbc model formula of the naic, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers. the basis of the system is a risk-based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer's business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. the life and health rbc formula is designed to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults 12 and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks. the formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. the formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers generally. the naic's solvency modernization initiative (smi) began in june 2008. the smi is a self-examination of the united states' insurance solvency regulation framework and includes a review of international developments regarding insurance supervision, banking supervision, and international accounting standards and their potential use in u.s. insurance regulation. the smi is a wide-ranging initiative that, by its nature, will evolve to respond to national and international insurance regulatory and solvency developments. current smi goals and the principles developed through the smi's exploration of capital requirements, group solvency, reinsurance, and international accounting will likely result in significant changes to u.s. insurance regulation and solvency standards. unum limited is subject to regulation, including capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, by the fsa in the u.k. current solvency standards require an insurance company to hold capital equal to the greater of (i) a formulaic calculation of capital related to liabilities or (ii) a risk-based assessment of capital which is company specific reflecting the insurance company's individual risk profile. unum limited will adopt solvency ii, a european union directive that will prescribe new capital requirements and risk management standards that are the result of a fundamental review of the capital adequacy standards for the european insurance industry. solvency ii will replace the current capital requirements for unum limited. solvency ii requirements have not been fully finalized, but the current proposals contain amended requirements on capital adequacy and risk management for insurers, including (i) requirements to demonstrate adequate financial resources, including quantitative requirements, technical provisions, and calculation of solvency ii capital requirements through either an approved full or partial internal model or the european standard formula approach, (ii) requirements to demonstrate an adequate system of governance, including effective risk management underpinned by prospective risk identification and quantification, and (iii) disclosure and regulatory reporting requirements. at the group level, if group supervision in the u.s. is not regarded as equivalent to the solvency ii regime, european regulators would have the power to require the establishment of a european holding company which would consist of all branches and subsidiaries of the company domiciled in europe and would become subject to supervision by a european supervisor. whether u.s. group supervision will be deemed equivalent is still under consideration and remains uncertain. the effective adoption date is expected to be january 1, 2014. although the impact of solvency ii on the company cannot be determined at this time, its implementation could result in increased capital, supervisory, and disclosure requirements. our bermuda-based insurance subsidiary is subject to regulation by the bermuda monetary authority (bma). during 2010, the bma initiated a comprehensive review and assessment of its insurance regulatory and solvency framework and published and released a series of consultation papers with the stated purpose of being recognized as equivalent under the solvency ii directive. the bma continued to work with european regulators throughout 2011 toward completion of the review and assessment. the scope and scale of its proposed change are potentially broad, and requirements are expected to vary by insurer licensing classification. it is too early to assess the impact, but the insurance industry in bermuda may ultimately be subject to new rules regarding governance, administrative and accounting processes, and/or long-term capital requirements. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources" contained herein in item 7. insurance holding company regulation we are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), which currently include maine, massachusetts, tennessee, south carolina, new york, vermont, and california. these laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including intercompany transactions. transactions between an insurer and affiliates in the holding company system generally must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval by the domiciliary insurance regulator. in addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources - cash available from subsidiaries" contained herein in item 7. 13 there are a number of proposals to amend state insurance laws and regulations in ways that could affect us and our insurance subsidiaries. the naic has recently adopted or amended model laws on holding company regulation that would provide for supervision of insurers at the corporate group level. although these changes are only beginning to be adopted by individual state regulators, it can be expected that most will ultimately adopt them in some form. the various proposals to implement group supervision include uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to rbc calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies. the laws of most states, including the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurance company or its holding company. where these laws apply to us, there can be no effective change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement containing specified information with the appropriate insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval of the proposed change. the usual measure for a presumptive change of control pursuant to these laws is the acquisition of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company, although this presumption is rebuttable. consequently, a person acquiring 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company without the prior approval of the insurance regulators in the state(s) of domicile of the insurance company(ies) sought to be acquired (or whose holding company is sought to be acquired) will be in violation of these laws. such a person may also be subject to one or more of the following actions: (i) injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the applicable insurance regulators; (ii) prohibition of voting of such shares; and (iii) other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulators. further, many states' insurance laws require that prior notification be given to state insurance regulators of a change in control of a non-domiciled insurance company doing business in the state. these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance regulators to disapprove the change in control; however, they do authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist, such as undue market concentration. any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-notification laws. these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. federal laws and regulations in july 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank), which effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the united states, was signed into law. dodd-frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years. dodd-frank will subject us to potentially significant additional federal regulation. among other provisions impacting or potentially impacting us, dodd-frank: creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets, including requiring that certain swaps be executed through a centralized exchange or regulated facility and be cleared through a regulated clearinghouse and subjecting major swap participants (potentially including our company) to capital and margin (i.e., collateral) requirements, which may have the effect of increasing the costs of hedging generally and the credit risk posed by some counterparties; establishes a financial stability oversight council with authority to subject systemically important financial companies (including non-bank financial companies such as our company) to supervision and stricter prudential regulation by the board of governors of the federal reserve board, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, stress testing, and credit exposure, and in certain circumstances limitations on acquisitions or combinations, restrictions on product offerings, and/or requirements to sell assets; and establishes a federal insurance office (fio) within the department of the treasury to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry (other than with respect to health insurance, certain long-term care insurance, and crop insurance), including identifying issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or the u.s. financial system and recommending insurers (potentially including our company) that should be designated for stricter regulation. the director of the fio is required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the united states, including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. the fio may also recommend enhanced regulations to state insurance regulatory bodies. 14 dodd-frank imposes various assessments on financial companies, including, as applicable to us, ex-post assessments to provide funds necessary to repay any borrowing and to cover the costs of any special resolution of a financial company conducted under title ii (although the regulatory authority would have to take account of the amounts paid by the company into state guaranty funds). we have not been designated as a systemically important financial company, and based on the quantitative criteria set forth in proposed regulation that has been issued, at this time we believe it is unlikely that we will be subject to such designation. we are subject to the laws and regulations generally applicable to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange relating to public reporting and disclosure, accounting and financial reporting, corporate governance, and securities trading. further, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and rules and regulations adopted under this regulation, have increased the requirements for us and other public companies in these and other areas. the usa patriot act of 2001 (patriot act) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. the patriot act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. anti-money laundering laws outside of the united states contain some similar provisions. additionally, other federal laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and regulations issued by the office of foreign asset's controls, as well as the u.k.'s bribery act of 2010, have increased requirements relating to identifying customers, prohibiting transactions with certain organizations or individuals, watching for and reporting suspicious transactions, responding to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, sharing information with other financial institutions, and requiring the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls. for further discussion of regulation, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. geographic areas segment operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our u.k. operations totaled $884.6 million, $845.8 million, and $828.2 million for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. these amounts were approximately 8.6 percent, 8.3 percent, and 8.2 percent of consolidated segment operating revenue for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. as of december 31, 2011, total assets and liabilities for our u.k. operations were $3.7 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, or approximately 6.1 percent and 5.0 percent of consolidated assets and liabilities, respectively. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency of our u.k. operations will impact our reported operating results. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. see "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and note 12 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum uk's operating results. employees at december 31, 2011, we had approximately 9,400 full-time employees. available information our internet website address is www.unum.com . we make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. executive officers of the registrant our executive officers, all of whom are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by unum group's board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. 15 name age position thomas r. watjen 57 president and chief executive officer and a director robert o. best* 62 executive vice president, global business technology liston bishop iii 65 executive vice president and general counsel randall c. horn 59 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life kevin p. mccarthy 56 executive vice president and chief operating officer; president and chief executive officer, unum us john f. mcgarry 54 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk richard p. mckenney 43 executive vice president and chief financial officer *mr. best retired from the company effective december 31, 2011. mr. watjen became president and chief executive officer in march 2003. he served as vice chairman and chief operating officer from may 2002 until march 2003. he became executive vice president, finance in june 1999 and assumed the additional risk management responsibilities in november 1999. mr. watjen originally joined a unum group predecessor company as executive vice president and chief financial officer in 1994. mr. best was named executive vice president, global business technology in march 2010. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, chief operating officer, unum us from january 2007 and executive vice president, service operations and chief information officer from january 2006 to january 2007. he served as executive vice president, the client services center, and chief information officer from may 2003. mr. best originally joined a unum group predecessor company as senior vice president and chief information officer in 1994. mr. bishop became executive vice president and general counsel in october 2008. prior to this appointment, he officially began serving as interim general counsel in april 2008. from august 1979 through september 2008, mr. bishop practiced corporate and securities law with the law firm of miller &amp; martin pllc, except during the period from january 2005 through july 2007 when he was employed as deputy general counsel and corporate secretary of coca-cola enterprises inc. mr. horn was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life in may 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer of colonial life &amp; accident insurance company from march 2004. before joining the company, he served as executive vice president of mutual of omaha insurance company from 1993 until 2003, having joined that company in 1981. mr. mccarthy was named executive vice president and chief operating officer in january 2012, in addition to maintaining his role as president and chief executive officer of unum us. he previously served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us from may 2007 and executive vice president, president, unum us from january 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, risk operations from january 2006. he previously served as executive vice president, underwriting from may 2003. mr. mccarthy originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1976. mr. mcgarry was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk in july 2010. he previously served as senior vice president, benefits, individual disability, and national client group business, for unum us from january 2010. prior to that, he served in various other capacities within unum us, including senior vice president, benefits operations and risk management from march 2008 to january 2010, senior vice president, benefits operations from january 2006 to march 2008, and senior vice president, underwriting operations from august 2005 to january 2006. mr. mcgarry originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1986. mr. mckenney was named executive vice president and chief financial officer in august 2009, having joined the company in july 2009. before joining the company, mr. mckenney served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of sun life financial inc., an international financial services company, since february 2007, having joined that company as executive vice president in september 2006. he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of genworth financial, inc., a global financial security company, from may 2004 until august 2006. 16 item 1a. risk factors we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. discussed below are certain factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases. the risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1. unfavorable economic conditions may result in lower premium growth, higher disability claims incidence, or longer claims duration and adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. as a large financial institution, we are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, both in the united states, the united kingdom, and to a lesser extent, the entire european union and asian financial markets. a challenging business environment and volatile markets persisted through 2011 and may continue in 2012. adversity in the capital markets and the general economy may adversely affect our business and results of operations. in particular, factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses. given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, new product sales may be adversely affected. our premium growth may also be negatively impacted by lower premium growth from existing customers due to lower salary growth and lower growth in the number of employees covered under an existing policy. in addition, during such periods we may experience higher disability claims incidence, longer disability claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses. we and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation, which may affect the cost or demand for our products, may increase capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, or may impact our profitability or growth. our activities are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the united states and abroad. regulators have the ability to take various steps to protect the businesses of the entities they regulate. for example, our insurance company subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. these laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us, restrict transactions between subsidiaries and/or between us and our subsidiaries, and may require contributions of capital by us to our insurance subsidiaries even if we are otherwise in compliance with stated requirements. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws or regulations could result in restrictions on our ability to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. it is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are domiciled and operate. we cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. the naic or state regulators may adopt revisions to the rbc formula, the fsa may revise its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, other jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, including the bma, may increase their capital requirements, or rating agencies may incorporate higher capital thresholds into their quantitative analyses, thus requiring additional capital contributions by us to our insurance subsidiaries. increased financial services regulation, such as the naic solvency modernization initiative and the european commission's solvency ii, may impose greater quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and disclosure requirements and may impact the business strategies, capital requirements, and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. new programs, including healthcare reform and financial services sector reform, may compete with or diminish the need for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace. congress, as well as foreign, state, and local governments, could enact legislation related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or could eliminate current tax deductions. any of these events could increase our tax costs or affect the desirability of our products to customers. legislative changes related to pension funding requirements could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and our profitability. 17 dodd-frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years. we cannot predict with certainty the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how or whether dodd-frank and such regulations will affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition, require us to raise additional capital, or result in a downgrade of our credit ratings. most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by the employee retirement income security act (erisa). changes to erisa enacted by congress or through judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability. the insurance departments in jurisdictions wherein our insurance subsidiaries conduct business may limit our ability to obtain rate increases under guaranteed renewable contracts and may require changes in rates and/or benefits to meet minimum loss ratio requirements which could negatively impact the profitability of our products. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in our claims handling practices, changes in business practices, including changes in broker compensation and related disclosure practices, changes in procedures for the identification and escheatment of abandoned property, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, increases to reserving requirements, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, fines, and other administrative action. such results, singly or in combination, may injure our reputation, cause negative publicity, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, or impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, thereby adversely affecting our business, and potentially materially adversely affecting the results of operations. determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and note 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. sustained periods of low interest rates in the long-term investment market may adversely affect our reported net investment income and our ability to purchase securities at rates of return assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. an interest, or discount, rate is used in calculating our policyholder reserves. we set our reserve discount rate assumptions based on our current and expected future investment yield for assets supporting the reserves, considering current and expected future market conditions. continued low interest rates and yields on fixed income investments may cause the rates of return on our investment portfolio to decrease more than expected, leading to lower net investment income than assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products. if the discount rate assumed in our reserve calculations is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets will not earn enough investment income to support our future claim payments. in that case, the reserves may eventually be insufficient, resulting in the need to increase our reserves and/or increase our capital contributions to our insurance subsidiaries, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1 and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. changes in the risk results of our segments or lines of businesses may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. in recent years, we have experienced volatility in risk results in various lines of business. historical results may not be indicative of future performance due to, among other things, changes in our mix of business, re-pricing of certain lines of business, or any number of economic cyclical effects on our business. in addition, reserves, whether calculated under gaap or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. actual claim experience may differ from our reserve assumptions. there can 18 be no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. life expectancies may continue to increase, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives disability or long-term care benefits and could result in a change in mortality assumptions and an increase in reserves for these and other long-tailed products. adjustments to reserve amounts may also be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors); persistency; policy benefit offsets, including those for social security and other government-based welfare benefits; and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1 and "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. in addition to interest rate risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. these risks include default risk, credit spread fluctuations, the accuracy of valuations of securities, and the possibility that we might need to sell securities at disadvantageous times. default risk investments are an integral part of our business, and our investments support our policyholder liabilities and shareholders' equity. our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer's industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, unforeseen accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer's marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations. in the european union, the sovereign debt crisis, concerns over bank exposure to sovereign debt, and questions about the stability and viability of the euro may result in an issuer defaulting on its obligations. our investment portfolio also includes perpetual debentures, or "hybrid" securities. interest on these securities due on any payment date may be deferred by the issuer. because interest payments are deferrable and because these securities rank behind traditional debt obligations, events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may have a greater adverse effect on these types of investments than on our traditional fixed maturity securities. our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk. events or developments, such as economic conditions that impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio. events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector. a default results in the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment loss on the investment. a default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us. the probability of credit downgrades and defaults increases when the fixed income markets experience periods of volatility and illiquidity. credit spread risk our exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads may increase the net unrealized loss position of the investment portfolio and may adversely impact liquidity. credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities. 19 valuation risk we report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at market value. valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, particularly during periods of market disruption, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we evaluate our investment portfolio for impairments. there can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken. additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. any event reducing the value of our securities other than on a temporary basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. market timing and liquidity risk while we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, we may in certain circumstances need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. events such as these may force us to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of our investments and derivatives. the effectiveness of our hedging programs may be affected by changes in the economic environment, ratings downgrades, capital market volatility, changes in interest rates, and regulation that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we use derivative instruments to help us manage interest rate risk. risks to our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity include: our hedges may become ineffective due to changes in expected future events, including, but not limited to, risk created by uncertainty in the european economic environment or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments. ineffectiveness of our hedges may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts. such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks. many of our counterparties are financial institutions, and capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance by financial institutions. non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind hedges. we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged. under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral. this may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral. an increase in interest rates may result in losses at the time hedges are terminated, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute effective hedges due to the increased economic cost of hedges. competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability. all of our businesses are highly competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are integrated product choices, price, quality of customer service and claims management, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. we compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability. the level and intensity of competition may grow due to existing competitors becoming more aggressive, new competitors entering the market, and an increase in merger and acquisition activity which may result in larger competitors with greater financial resources. there are many insurance 20 companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies and new competitors in the future. see "competition" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board (fasb), the international accounting standards board (iasb), the u.k. accounting standards board (asb), or other standard-setting bodies may materially affect our financial statements. our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles in both the united states and the united kingdom, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the fasb and asb. the fasb has several ongoing projects regarding accounting standards that will likely be adopted in the near future. future accounting standards we adopt will change current accounting and disclosure requirements applicable to our financial statements. such changes may have a material effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition. a decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, or financial condition. we compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. a downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. a downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to unum group or a negative outlook statement by a rating agency could have an effect on our ability to raise capital and on our cost of capital. see "ratings" contained herein in item 1 and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. there are many events which may harm our reputation. these events could include but are not limited to those discussed in this item 1a regarding regulatory investigations concerning one or more aspects of broker compensation and related matters, as well as legal proceedings which have previously and may in the future result in court rulings and jury verdicts against us. decisions such as exiting a line of business or implementing premium rate increases may result in negative publicity and unfavorable regulatory responses. our reliance on independent contractors and brokers to distribute many of our products exposes our reputation to the possibility of being damaged by sales practices over which we have no means of direct control. depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business. damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital and/or increase our cost of capital. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and note 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on regulatory matters and legal proceedings. volatility in long-term interest rates or the rate of return on pension plan assets may have a negative effect on the funded status of our pension plans and/or increase our pension costs. the rate of return on pension plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period. declines in long-term interest rates or the fair value of our plan assets may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. conversely, a rise in interest rates could unfavorably impact the fair value of both the fixed income and equity investments in our pension plans. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and note 8 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. we provide a broad array of disability, long-term care, group life, and voluntary insurance products that are affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our profitability or cash flows. disability insurance disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. competition in disability insurance has also been markedly affected by the growth of social security, workers' compensation, and other governmental programs in the workplace. 21 both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence and recoveries for disability insurance. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses. claim durations may be extended by medical improvements which could extend life expectancies. the relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. the pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ between product classes. our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business. guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market. long-term care insurance long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products. this creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval which can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all. we monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends. changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves. mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives long-term care benefits and may subject more policyholders to advanced aging and an associated increase in claims incidence. due to the long duration of the product, we may be unable to purchase appropriate assets with cash flows and durations such that the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. sustained periods of low interest rates could result in lower than expected profitability and increases in reserves. group life insurance group life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks and natural disasters, which may also affect the availability of reinsurance coverage. there are a series of lawsuits pending in federal courts challenging the use of retained asset accounts in group life plans that are governed by erisa. if these challenges are upheld by the courts, our ability to use such accounts for the beneficiaries of these plans may be adversely affected. voluntary products voluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics. our voluntary life insurance products generally include interest-sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate. it is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate. the non-life contracts are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1 and "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. 22 an assessment by a governing tax authority may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws in a multitude of jurisdictions, both domestic and foreign. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred income tax asset. factors in our ability to realize a tax benefit from our deferred income tax asset include the performance of our businesses and our ability to generate realized investment gains. if we determine that all or a portion of the deferred income tax asset will not result in a future tax benefit, a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income or other comprehensive income. such charges may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the likelihood of recording a valuation allowance increases during periods of economic downturn. our overall risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. we have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, operations, capital and liquidity, and reputational risks. however, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for managing risk may not fully predict future exposures. see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further information about our risk management program. litigation is common in our businesses and may result in material financial losses and/or harm to our reputation. unum group and its subsidiaries are defendants in a number of lawsuits. the outcome of these lawsuits is uncertain. an estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings. unum group and its insurance subsidiaries, as part of their normal operations in managing claims, are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. we expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. see note 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings. united kingdom currency translation risk could materially impact reported operating results. the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our financial results. in periods when the pound weakens, translating pounds into dollars decreases current period results relative to the prior period. in periods when the pound strengthens, translating pounds into dollars increases current period results in relation to the prior period. however, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert pounds into dollars. as a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. 23 we are subject to various operational risks resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or from external events which may damage our market position and reputation and/or adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we face challenges and risks associated with the development, sale, and retention of product offerings that meet the needs of our targeted markets; maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline; continued effective claim management and customer service performance; ongoing expense management; delivering effective technology solutions; continued effective controls over our asset management and derivative trading activities; continued execution of our capital management strategy; and the successful implementation of operational improvements and strategic growth initiatives. failure to successfully manage our operational risks may adversely affect our competitiveness, profitability, or financial condition. our ability to finance our ongoing operations may not always be possible solely from internal sources of capital and liquidity. if we need to seek external capital, there is the risk that adverse market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital or our cost of capital. a change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations. deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, and our business may suffer. if our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. if our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by state insurance regulations, is considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities and the rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in this item 1a may impose higher capital or reserve requirements on our insurance subsidiaries. need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary's ability to distribute funds to the holding company and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our debt and other payment obligations. obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be complicated in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty. the markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. the availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock in unum group. see "liquidity and capital resources" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. our subsidiaries may be restricted from paying dividends to our holding companies which could adversely impact our ability to pay dividends and other obligations. unum group and certain of its subsidiaries rely on dividends from our insurance and non-insurance company subsidiaries to make dividend payments on our common stock, meet debt payment obligations, and pay our other obligations. our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds or other assets to affiliates. the level of statutory earnings and capital in our insurance subsidiaries could impact their ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to our holding companies, which could impair our ability to pay our dividends or meet our debt and other payment obligations. see "liquidity and capital resources" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and note 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for a discussion of the existing regulatory limitations on dividends. 24 reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue. the collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (dac), value of business acquired (voba), and goodwill. we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we defer certain costs incurred in acquiring new business and expense these costs over the life of the related policies. these costs include certain commissions, other agency compensation, selection and policy issue expenses, and field expenses. voba represents the present value of future profits recorded in connection with the acquisition of a block of insurance policies. dac and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for dac and voba is performed on an annual basis. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either dac and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. accounting standard updates which we will be required to adopt in our first quarter 2012 filing will result in a decrease to our existing dac asset. see "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 5, and 12 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. a cyber security incident that bypasses our information technology security systems may lead to a material disruption of our information technology systems and/or the loss of information, resulting in adverse impacts to our profitability, our business, and our reputation. maintaining the security systems to protect the systems and data is critical to our reputation. we seek to prevent, detect, and investigate security incidents to prevent their recurrence but in some cases we may be unaware of emerging threats and the magnitude of their effects. the theft, destruction, or unauthorized use of confidential data could cause, among other things, operational disruption and reputational harm. we could suffer operational delays resulting from the disruption of our information technology systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities. negative publicity regarding a security breach could result in damage to our competitive position and our reputation with our customers and business partners. we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides coverage for network security, privacy liability, technology errors and omissions, media liability, first party network business interruption, electronic restoration, and cyber extortion. this coverage also provides sub-limits for credit monitoring, notification costs, regulatory expense, and investigative expense. our insurance may not provide adequate loss coverage in all circumstances. extreme events, including political instability or terrorism, can affect the economy in general, our industry, and us specifically. events such as epidemics, pandemics, political instability, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, or other extreme events may materially adversely affect our business, the level of claims, or our results of operations, and in the event of extreme circumstances, our financial condition or viability. beyond obtaining insurance coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events away from us. we purchase reinsurance protection against catastrophic disaster events, including terrorism. the continued threat of terrorism could result in increased 25 reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. in the event of nuclear or bioterrorism attacks, epidemics, or other extreme events, we could face significant costs depending on the government's actions and the responsiveness of public agencies and other insurers. in addition, we may also be adversely affected if we do not maintain adequate procedures to ensure disaster recovery and business continuity for our facilities and operations in the event of such occurrences. see "reinsurance" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. we also face other risks that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition, including but not limited to: a significant deficiency in our internal controls over financial reporting; any requirement to restate financial results due to inappropriate application of accounting principles; a guaranty fund assessment by a governing regulatory body to cover the proportional cost of an insolvent or failed insurer; failure to adequately plan for succession of our senior management and other key executives; and failure of our processes to prevent and detect fraud and/or unethical conduct of employees. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to various market risk exposures, including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding our risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating our overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. see "investments" contained herein in item 7 and notes 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate changes results from our holdings of financial instruments such as fixed rate investments, derivatives, and interest-sensitive liabilities. fixed rate investments include fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, and short-term investments. fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and redeemable preferred stock, all of which are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations. certain of our financial instruments, fixed maturity securities and derivatives, are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of these financial instruments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. a rise in interest rates may decrease the net unrealized gain related to these financial instruments, but may improve our ability to earn higher rates of return on new purchases of fixed maturity securities. conversely, a decline in interest rates may increase the net unrealized gain, but new securities may be purchased at lower rates of return. although changes in fair value of fixed maturity securities and derivatives due to changes in interest rates may impact amounts reported in our consolidated balance sheets, these changes will not cause an economic gain or loss unless we sell investments, terminate derivative positions, determine that an investment is other than temporarily impaired, or determine that a derivative instrument is no longer an effective hedge. other fixed rate investments, such as mortgage loans and policy loans, are carried at amortized cost and unpaid balances, respectively, rather than fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. these investments may have fair values substantially higher or lower than the carrying values reflected in our balance sheets. a change in interest rates could impact our financial position if we sold our mortgage loan investments at times of low market value. a change in interest rates would not impact our financial position at repayment of policy loans, as ultimately the cash surrender values or death benefits would be reduced for the carrying value of any outstanding policy loans. carrying amounts for short-term investments approximate fair value, and we believe we have minimal interest rate risk exposure from these investments. we believe that the risk of being forced to liquidate investments or terminate derivative positions is minimal, primarily due to the level of capital at our insurance subsidiaries, the level of cash and marketable securities at our holding companies, and our investment strategy which we believe provides for adequate cash flows to meet the funding requirements of our business. we may in certain circumstances, however, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. although our policy benefits are primarily in the form of claim payments and we therefore have minimal exposure to the policy withdrawal risk associated with deposit products such as individual life policies or annuities, the fair values of liabilities under all insurance contracts are taken into consideration in our overall management of interest rate risk, which minimizes exposure to changing interest rates through the matching of investment cash flows with amounts due under insurance contracts. changes in interest rates and individuals' behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. we actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to mitigate interest rate risk. due to the long duration of our long-term care product, we may be unable to purchase appropriate assets with cash flows and durations such that the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. sustained periods of low interest rates could result in lower than expected profitability or increases in reserves. we model and test asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios allows us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to prepare for disadvantageous outcomes. this analysis is the precursor to our activities in derivative financial instruments. we use current and forward interest rate swaps, options on forward interest rate swaps, and forward treasury locks to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. 95 short-term and long-term debt are not carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. if we modify or replace existing short-term or long-term debt instruments at current market rates, we may incur a gain or loss on the transaction. we believe our debt-related risk to changes in interest rates is relatively minimal. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. we measure our financial instruments' market risk related to changes in interest rates using a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates potential changes in fair values as of december 31, 2011 and 2010 based on a hypothetical immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels. the selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. the hypothetical potential changes in fair value of our financial instruments at december 31, 2011 and 2010 are shown as follows: december 31, 2011 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 42,486.7 $ 38,912.6 $ (3,574.1 ) mortgage loans 1,789.8 1,716.2 (73.6 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 286.1 270.0 (16.1 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and other (2) $ (5,021.3 ) $ (2,333.6 ) $ 2,687.7 short-term debt (312.3 ) (312.3 ) long-term debt (2,540.2 ) (2,400.6 ) 139.6 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,413.0 $ (36.0 ) $ (118.8 ) $ (82.8 ) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (135.7 ) (138.4 ) (2.7 ) december 31, 2010 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 40,035.6 $ 36,576.1 $ (3,459.5 ) mortgage loans 1,685.4 1,609.5 (75.9 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 253.9 239.9 (14.0 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and other (2) $ (2,993.6 ) $ (631.6 ) $ 2,362.0 short-term debt (226.8 ) (226.4 ) 0.4 long-term debt (2,483.8 ) (2,358.3 ) 125.5 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,681.9 $ (100.5 ) $ (190.6 ) $ (90.1 ) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (96.3 ) (105.4 ) (9.1 ) (1) these assets and liabilities are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates may affect the fair value at which the item is reported in our consolidated balance sheets. the corresponding offsetting change is reported in other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes, except for changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative which is reported as a component of net realized investment gain or loss. (2) the adjustment to reserves and other for unrealized investment gains and losses reflects the adjustments to deferred acquisition costs and policyholder liabilities that would be necessary if the unrealized investment gains and losses related to the fixed maturity securities and derivatives had been realized. changes in this adjustment are also reported as a component of other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes. 96 the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities was estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values shown in the chart above for all other items were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. as previously discussed in item 7, in response to the significant decline in interest rates, we have lowered the discount rate on our long-term care product to reflect the low interest rate environment and our expectation of future investment portfolio yield rates. we will continue to monitor these issues in accordance with the policies set forth above to ensure appropriate management of these prevailing risks. foreign currency risk the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. we are exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in the british pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rates primarily as they relate to the translation of the financial results of our u.k. operations. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results. we do not hedge against the possible impact of this risk. because we do not actually convert pounds into dollars except for a limited number of transactions, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. assuming the pound to dollar exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2011 and 2010 levels, stockholders' equity as reported in u.s. dollars as of and for the periods then ended would have been lower by approximately $109.3 million and $106.0 million , respectively. assuming the pound to dollar average exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the actual average exchange rates for 2011 and 2010 , segment operating income, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses and income tax, as reported in u.s. dollars would have decreased approximately $18.9 million and $22.5 million , respectively, for the years then ended. dividends paid by unum limited are generally held at our u.k. finance subsidiary or our u.k. holding company. if these funds are repatriated to our u.s. holding company, we would at that time be subject to foreign currency risk as the value of the dividend, when converted into u.s. dollars, would be dependent upon the foreign exchange rate at the time of conversion. we are also exposed to foreign currency risk related to certain foreign investment securities denominated in local currencies and u.s. dollar-denominated debt issued by one of our u.k. subsidiaries. we use current and forward currency swaps to hedge or minimize the foreign exchange risk associated with these instruments. see "unum uk segment" contained herein in item 7 for further information concerning foreign currency translation. risk management effectively taking and managing risks is essential to the success of our company. to facilitate this effort, we have a formal enterprise risk management (erm) program, with a framework comprising the following key components: risk culture and governance risk appetite policy risk identification and prioritization risk and capital modeling risk management activities risk reporting through adherence to the objectives highlighted by the key components of our erm framework, we believe we are better positioned to fulfill our corporate mission, improve and protect stockholder value, and reduce reputational risk. 97 risk culture and governance we employ a decentralized risk management model under which risk-based decisions are made daily on a local level. to achieve long-term success, we believe risk management must be the responsibility of all employees. the individual and collective decisions of our employees play a key role in successfully managing our overall risk profile. we strive for a culture of accountability, risk management, and strict compliance, and we believe these values allow our employees to feel comfortable identifying issues as well as taking ownership for addressing potential problems. our risk culture is reinforced by our system of risk governance. we employ a multi-layered risk control system. our three lines of defense model is depicted below. 1st line: the business 2nd line: risk and control 3rd line: independent review all unum employees risk committees and chief risk officer internal audit and internal controls frontline business management chief actuary audit committee of unum group board compliance officers and staff unum group board business units are primarily responsible for managing their principal risks. our risk committees, chief risk officer (cro), chief actuary, and compliance officers and staff serve in risk and control functions responsible for providing risk oversight, or the second line of risk control. the internal audit team and internal controls team provide a second level of independent review, or our third line of risk control. the audit committee of unum group's board of directors (the board) oversees the entire erm governance process, effectively providing independent review for our third line of risk control. the board has an active role, as a whole and through its committees, in overseeing management of our risks. the board is responsible for managing strategic risk and regularly reviews information regarding our capital, liquidity, and operations, as well as the risks associated with each, and receives an erm report from our cro at least annually, or more frequently as appropriate. the audit committee of the board is responsible for oversight of our risk management process, including financial risk, operational risk, and any other risk not specifically assigned to another board committee. the cro provides a report on our risks and risk management processes to the audit committee of the board at least quarterly. the finance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks associated with investments and related financial matters. the human capital committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to our compensation plans and programs. the cro performs an annual risk assessment of our incentive compensation programs to ensure incentive plans are balanced and consistent with the risk levels embedded in our financial and business plans. results of this assessment are presented to our human capital committee of the board annually, and conclusions from this assessment are reported in our proxy statement. the regulatory compliance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks related to regulatory, compliance, policy, and legal matters, both current and emerging, and whether of a local, state, federal, or international nature. while each committee is responsible for evaluating certain risks and overseeing the management of such risks, the entire board is regularly informed through committee reports about such risks in addition to the risk information it receives directly. the executive risk management committee is responsible for overseeing our enterprise-wide risk management program. the cro, who is a member of the executive risk management committee, has primary responsibility for our erm program and is supported by corporate risk committees and by the risk committees of our three primary operating segments. operating segment risk committees for unum us, unum uk, and colonial life are responsible for oversight of risks specific to their businesses. these committees are responsible for identifying, measuring, reporting, and managing insurance and operational risks within their respective areas, consistent with enterprise risk management guidance. corporate risk committees oversee the operational, global technology services, investment, and capital management risks on a corporate level. risk appetite policy our risk appetite policy describes the types of risks we are willing to take, as well as the amount of enterprise risk exposure we deem acceptable in pursuit of our goals, with an objective of clearly defining boundaries for our risk-taking activities. the starting point of our philosophy and approach to our erm strategy is our corporate strategy. in contrast to many 98 multi-line peer companies, we do not offer retirement savings, traditional medical benefits, or property and casualty insurance. our corporate strategy is focused on providing group, individual, and voluntary benefits, either as stand-alone products or combined with other coverages, that create comprehensive benefits solutions for employers. we have market leadership positions in the product lines we offer and have over 160 years of experience. we believe this combination of focused expertise and extensive experience is a competitive advantage that forms the foundation of our approach to risk management. our sound and consistent business practices, strong internal compliance program, and comprehensive risk management strategy enable us to operate efficiently as well as to identify and address potential areas of risk in our business. we take and manage risks to achieve our business and strategic objectives, and our risk appetite statement sets boundaries for risk-taking activities that link earnings, capital, and operational processes, as well as summarizes our most material risk limits and controls. we monitor our risk profile against our established risk tolerance and limits. risks falling outside our risk tolerance and limits are reported to the applicable governance group, where decisions are made pertaining to acceptance of the risk or implementation of remediation plans or corrective actions as deemed appropriate by that governance group. risk identification and prioritization risk identification and prioritization is an ongoing process, whereby we identify and assess our risk positions and exposures, including notable risk events. additionally, we identify emerging risks and analyze how material future risks might affect us. knowing the potential risks we face allows us to monitor and manage their potential effects including adjusting our strategies as appropriate and holding capital levels which provide financial flexibility. risk committees have primary responsibility for identifying and prioritizing risks within their respective areas. in addition, we maintain a risk, ethics, and compliance (rec) leaders program. the goal of the program is to further embed rec management into our culture in a visible and effective manner. this group assists with the early identification of issues, timely referrals, problem solving, and communication. individual employees can report material concerns and identified risks through a variety of options, such as discussion with management, contacting a rec leader or the erm team, or utilizing the company's anonymous hotline and electronic reporting mechanism. we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. for additional information on certain risks that may adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" included below the table of contents and "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. risk and capital modeling we assess material risks, including how they affect us and how individual risks interrelate, to provide valuable information to management in order that they may effectively manage our risks. we use qualitative and quantitative approaches to assess existing and emerging risks and to develop mitigating strategies to limit our exposure to both. we utilize stress testing and scenario analysis for risk management and to shape our business, financial, and strategic planning activities. both are key components of our risk appetite policy and play an important role in monitoring, assessing, managing, and mitigating our primary risk exposures. in particular, stress testing of our capital and liquidity management strategies enables us to identify areas of high exposure, assess mitigating actions, develop contingency plans, and guide decisions around our target capital and liquidity levels. for example, we periodically perform stress tests on certain categories of assets or liabilities to support development of capital and liquidity risk contingency plans. these tests help ensure that we have a buffer to support our operations in uncertain times and financial flexibility to respond to market opportunities. stress testing is also central to reserve adequacy testing, cash flow testing, and asset and liability management. in addition, we aim to constantly improve our capital modeling techniques and methodologies that are used to determine a level of capital that is commensurate with our risk profile and to ensure compliance with evolving regulatory and rating agency requirements. our capital modeling reflects appropriate aggregation of risks and diversification benefits resulting from our mix of products and business units. our internal capital modeling and allocation aids us in making significant business decisions including strategic planning, 99 capital management, risk limit determination, reinsurance purchases, hedging activities, asset allocation, pricing, and corporate development. risk management activities we accept and manage strategic, credit, and insurance risks in accordance with our corporate strategy, investment policy, and annual business plans. the following fundamental principles are embedded in our risk management efforts across our company. we believe in the benefits of specialization and a focused business strategy. we seek profitable risk-taking in areas where we have established risk management skills and capabilities. we seek to manage our exposure to insurance risk through a combination of prudent underwriting with effective risk selection, maintaining pricing discipline, sound reserving practices, and high quality claims management. detailed underwriting guidelines and claim policies are tools used to manage our insurance risk exposure. we also monitor exposures against internally prescribed limits and practice diversification to reduce potential concentration risk and volatility. we maintain a detailed set of investment policies and guidelines, including fundamental credit analysis, that are used to manage our credit risk exposure and diversify our risks across asset classes and issuers. finally, we foster a risk culture that embeds our corporate values and our code of conduct in our daily operations and preserves our reputation with customers and other key stakeholders. we monitor a composite set of operational risk metrics that measure operating effectiveness from the customer perspective. risk reporting regular internal and external risk reporting is an integral part of our erm framework. internally, erm reports are a standard part of our quarterly senior management and board meetings. the reports summarize our existing and emerging risk exposures, as well as report against the tolerances and limits defined by our risk appetite policy. externally, we are subject to a number of regulatory and rating agency risk examinations, and risk reports are often included. domestic and international regulators are currently completing requirements for a new own risk and solvency assessment (orsa) standard, which is intended to become a regular part of reviews of insurers' erm programs. orsa is expected to provide strong evidence of the strengths of our erm framework, measurement approaches, key assumptions utilized in assessing our risks, and prospective solvency assessments under both normal and stressed conditions. during 2012, we will implement actions to prepare for compliance with this evolving standard. 100regulation general we and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive and comprehensive regulation on both the federal and state level in the u.s. and by the financial services authority (fsa) in the u.k. the laws and regulations with which we must comply are subject to change, and new and existing laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations. as a result of the financial market and economic challenges over the past few years, regulation and the cost of compliance with regulation has continued to increase in both the u.s. and internationally. insurance regulatory oversight our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to oversight by insurance departments in jurisdictions in which they do business and by the u.s. department of labor (dol) on a national basis, primarily for the protection of policyholders. unum limited is subject to regulation by the fsa in the u.k. the state insurance departments in the u.s. and the fsa in the u.k. have broad administrative powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business and, in particular, monitor the manner in which an insurance company offers, sells, and administers its products. this monitoring and approval process may include reviewing 11 sales practices, including the content and use of advertising materials and the licensing and appointing of agents and brokers, as well as review and/or approval of underwriting, claims, pricing, and customer service practices. the dol enforces a comprehensive federal statute which regulates claims paying fiduciary responsibilities and reporting and disclosure requirements for most employee benefit plans. our domestic insurance subsidiaries must meet the standards and tests for investments imposed by state insurance laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled. domestic insurance subsidiaries operate under insurance laws which require they establish and carry, as liabilities, statutory reserves to meet policyholder obligations. these reserves are verified periodically by various regulators. our domestic insurance subsidiaries are examined periodically by examiners from their states of domicile and by other states in which they are licensed to conduct business. the domestic examinations have traditionally emphasized financial matters from the perspective of protection of policyholders, but they can and have covered other subjects that an examining state may be interested in reviewing, such as market conduct issues. other states more typically perform market conduct examinations that include a review of a company's sales practices, including advertising and licensing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, customer service, and identification and handling of unclaimed property to determine compliance with state laws. our domestic insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessments by state insurance guaranty associations to cover the proportional cost of insolvent or failed insurers. capital requirements risk based capital (rbc) standards for u.s. life insurance companies have been prescribed by the national association of insurance commissioners (naic). the domiciliary states of our u.s. insurance subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the rbc model formula of the naic, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers. the basis of the system is a risk-based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer's business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. the life and health rbc formula is designed to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks. the formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. the formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers generally. the naic's solvency modernization initiative (smi) began in june 2008. the smi is a self-examination of the united states' insurance solvency regulation framework and includes a review of international developments regarding insurance supervision, banking supervision, and international accounting standards and their potential use in u.s. insurance regulation. the smi is a wide-ranging initiative that, by its nature, will evolve to respond to national and international insurance regulatory and solvency developments. current smi goals and the principles developed through the smi's exploration of capital requirements, governance and risk management, group supervision, statutory accounting and financial reporting, and reinsurance will likely result in significant changes to u.s. insurance regulation and solvency standards, including those for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries. progress on the various initiatives is expected to continue throughout 2013. although the naic has made progress with some legislation, effective dates are uncertain as the legislation is subject to adoption of enabling legislation by individual states, which has not yet occurred. unum limited is subject to regulation, including capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, by the fsa in the u.k. current solvency standards require an insurance company to hold capital equal to the greater of (i) a formulaic calculation of capital related to liabilities or (ii) a risk-based assessment of capital which is company specific reflecting the insurance company's individual risk profile. solvency ii, a european union directive that will prescribe new capital requirements and risk management standards that are the result of a fundamental review of the capital adequacy standards for the european insurance industry, will replace the current capital requirements for unum limited. our european holding company will also be subject to the solvency ii requirements relevant to insurance holding companies, and its subsidiaries, including unum limited, will be subject to group supervision under solvency ii. solvency ii requirements have not been fully finalized, but the current proposals contain amended requirements on capital adequacy and risk management for insurers, including (i) requirements to demonstrate adequate financial resources, including quantitative requirements, technical provisions, and calculation of solvency ii capital requirements through either an approved full or partial internal model or the european standard formula approach, (ii) requirements to demonstrate an adequate system of governance, including effective risk management underpinned by prospective risk identification and quantification, and (iii) disclosure and regulatory reporting requirements. although the regulatory timetable remains uncertain, the effective adoption date is expected to be no earlier than january 1, 2015. the impact of solvency ii on our u.k. subsidiaries cannot be determined at this time, but its implementation could result in increased capital, supervisory, and disclosure requirements. 12 our bermuda-based insurance subsidiary is subject to regulation by the bermuda monetary authority (bma). over the past few years, the bma has been engaged in a comprehensive review and assessment of its insurance regulatory and solvency framework. the scope and scale of the bma's proposed changes are broad, and the insurance industry in bermuda is and will be subject to new rules regarding governance, administrative and accounting processes, capital requirements, and disclosure requirements. the regulatory timetable and effective adoption dates remain uncertain. the impact of the proposed changes cannot be determined at this time, but the implementation of the requirements could result in increased capital and governance requirements for our bermuda-based insurance subsidiary. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources" contained herein in item 7. insurance holding company regulation we are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), which currently include maine, massachusetts, tennessee, south carolina, new york, vermont, and california. these laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including information concerning capital structure, ownership, management, financial condition, and certain intercompany transactions. transactions between an insurer and affiliates in the holding company system generally must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval by the domiciliary insurance regulator. in addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources - cash available from subsidiaries" contained herein in item 7. there are a number of proposals to amend state insurance laws and regulations in ways that could affect us and our insurance subsidiaries. the naic has adopted or amended model laws on holding company regulation that provide for supervision of insurers at the corporate group level. although these changes are only beginning to be adopted by individual state regulators, it can be expected that most will ultimately adopt them in some form. the various proposals to implement group supervision include uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to rbc calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies. a completed activity within the smi includes the recent adoption by the naic of the risk management and own risk and solvency assessment model act and the own risk and solvency assessment (orsa) guidance manual which require insurers to provide a group-level perspective on the risks of the current and future business plans and the sufficiency of capital to support those risks. we expect to file our orsa summary report with the applicable insurance regulators in 2015. the laws of most states, including the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurance company or its holding company. where these laws apply to us, there can be no effective change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement containing specified information with the appropriate insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval of the proposed change. the usual measure for a presumptive change of control pursuant to these laws is the acquisition of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company, although this presumption is rebuttable. consequently, a person acquiring 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company without the prior approval of the insurance regulators in the state(s) of domicile of the insurance company(ies) sought to be acquired (or whose holding company is sought to be acquired) will be in violation of these laws. such a person may also be subject to one or more of the following actions: (i) injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the applicable insurance regulators; (ii) prohibition of voting of such shares; and (iii) other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulators. further, many states' insurance laws require that prior notification be given to state insurance regulators of a change in control of a non-domiciled insurance company doing business in the state. these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance regulators to disapprove the change in control; however, they do authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist, such as undue market concentration. any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-notification laws. these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. 13 federal laws and regulations in july 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank), which effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the united states, was signed into law. dodd-frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years. dodd-frank will subject us to potentially significant additional federal regulation. among other provisions impacting or potentially impacting us, dodd-frank: creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets, including requiring that certain swaps be executed through a centralized exchange or regulated facility and be cleared through a regulated clearinghouse and subjecting major swap participants (potentially including our company) to capital and margin (i.e., collateral) requirements, which may have the effect of increasing the costs of hedging generally and the credit risk posed by some counterparties; establishes a financial stability oversight council with authority to subject systemically important financial companies (including non-bank financial companies such as our company) to supervision and stricter prudential regulation by the board of governors of the federal reserve board, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, stress testing, and credit exposure, and in certain circumstances limitations on acquisitions or combinations, restrictions on product offerings, and/or requirements to sell assets; and establishes a federal insurance office (fio) within the department of the treasury to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry (other than with respect to health insurance, certain long-term care insurance, and crop insurance), including identifying issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or the u.s. financial system and recommending insurers (potentially including our company) that should be designated for stricter regulation. the director of the fio is required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the united states, including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. the fio may also recommend enhanced regulations to state insurance regulatory bodies. dodd-frank imposes various assessments on financial companies, including, as applicable to us, ex-post assessments to provide funds necessary to repay any borrowing and to cover the costs of any special resolution of a financial company conducted under title ii (although the regulatory authority would have to take account of the amounts paid by the company into state guaranty funds). we have not been designated as a systemically important financial company, and based on the quantitative criteria set forth in proposed regulation that has been issued, at this time we believe it is unlikely that we will be subject to such designation. we are subject to the laws and regulations generally applicable to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange relating to public reporting and disclosure, accounting and financial reporting, corporate governance, and securities trading. further, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and rules and regulations adopted under this regulation, have increased the requirements for us and other public companies in these and other areas. the usa patriot act of 2001 (patriot act) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. the patriot act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. anti-money laundering laws outside of the united states contain some similar provisions. additionally, other federal laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and regulations issued by the office of foreign asset's controls, as well as the u.k.'s bribery act of 2010, have increased requirements relating to identifying customers, prohibiting transactions with certain organizations or individuals, watching for and reporting suspicious transactions, responding to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, sharing information with other financial institutions, and requiring the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls. for further discussion of regulation, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. 14 geographic areas segment operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our unum uk segment totaled $865.5 million, $877.8 million, and $822.3 million for 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. these amounts were approximately 8.3 percent, 8.5 percent, and 8.1 percent of consolidated segment operating revenue for 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. as of december 31, 2012, total assets and liabilities for our unum uk segment were $4.0 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, or approximately 6.4 percent and 5.5 percent of consolidated assets and liabilities, respectively. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency of our unum uk segment will impact our reported operating results. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. see "reporting segments" contained herein in item 1, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and note 12 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum uk's operating results. employees at december 31, 2012, we had approximately 9,100 full-time employees. available information our internet website address is www.unum.com . we make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. executive officers of the registrant our executive officers, all of whom are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by unum group's board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. name age position thomas r. watjen 58 president and chief executive officer and a director liston bishop iii 66 executive vice president and general counsel randall c. horn 60 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life kevin p. mccarthy 57 executive vice president and chief operating officer; president and chief executive officer, unum us john f. mcgarry 55 executive vice president, individual disability and long-term care closed block operations richard p. mckenney 44 executive vice president and chief financial officer peter g. o'donnell 46 president and chief executive officer, unum uk mr. watjen became president and chief executive officer in march 2003. he served as vice chairman and chief operating officer from may 2002 until march 2003. he became executive vice president, finance in june 1999 and assumed the additional risk management responsibilities in november 1999. mr. watjen originally joined a unum group predecessor company as executive vice president and chief financial officer in 1994. mr. bishop became executive vice president and general counsel in october 2008, having served as interim general counsel beginning in april 2008. from august 1979 through september 2008, mr. bishop practiced corporate and securities law as a member of the law firm of miller &amp; martin pllc, except during the period from january 2005 through july 2007 when he was employed as deputy general counsel and corporate secretary of coca-cola enterprises inc. mr. horn was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life in may 2006. prior to that, he served as president and chief executive officer, colonial life from march 2004. before joining the company, he served as executive vice president of mutual of omaha insurance company from 1993 until 2003, having joined that company in 1981. 15 mr. mccarthy was named executive vice president and chief operating officer in january 2012, in addition to maintaining his role as president and chief executive officer of unum us, a position he has held since may 2007. he previously served as executive vice president, president, unum us from january 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, risk operations from january 2006. he previously served as executive vice president, underwriting from may 2003. mr. mccarthy originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1976. mr. mcgarry was named executive vice president, individual disability and long-term care closed block operations in september 2012, after having served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk from july 2010. he previously served as senior vice president, benefits, individual disability, and national client group business, for unum us from january 2010. prior to that, he served in various other capacities within unum us, including senior vice president, benefits operations and risk management from march 2008 to january 2010, senior vice president, benefits operations from january 2006 to march 2008, and senior vice president, underwriting operations from august 2005 to january 2006. mr. mcgarry originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1986. mr. mckenney was named executive vice president and chief financial officer in august 2009, having joined the company in july 2009. before joining the company, mr. mckenney served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of sun life financial inc., an international financial services company, from february 2007, having joined that company as executive vice president in september 2006. he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of genworth financial, inc., a global financial security company, from may 2004 until august 2006. mr. o'donnell was named president and chief executive officer, unum uk, in september 2012, after having joined the company as unum limited's chief financial officer in 2010. prior to joining unum limited, mr. o'donnell served as director of group finance at prudential plc, an international financial services company, from may 2008 to may 2010. he served as finance director at royal &amp; sunalliance plc, an international financial services company, from may 2005 to may 2008. 16 item 1a. risk factors we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. discussed below are certain factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases. the risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1. unfavorable economic conditions may result in lower sales, lower premium growth and persistency, higher disability claims incidence, and longer claims duration, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, both in the united states, the united kingdom, and to a lesser extent, the entire european union and asian financial markets. a challenging business environment and volatile markets persisted through 2012 and may continue in 2013. adversity in the capital markets and the general economy may adversely affect our business and results of operations. in particular, factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses. given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, new product sales may be adversely affected. our premium growth may also be negatively impacted by lower premium growth from existing customers due to lower salary growth and lower growth in the number of employees covered under an existing policy. in addition, during such periods we may experience higher disability claims incidence, longer disability claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. sustained periods of low interest rates in the long-term investment market may adversely affect our reported net investment income and the discount rates used in reserving for our insurance products and projecting our pension obligations, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. continued low interest rates and yields on fixed income investments may cause the rates of return on our investment portfolio to decrease more than expected, leading to lower net investment income than assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products. an interest, or discount, rate is used in calculating our policyholder reserves. we set our reserve discount rate assumptions based on our current and expected future investment yield for assets supporting the reserves, considering current and expected future market conditions. if the discount rate assumed in our reserve calculations is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets will not earn enough investment income to support our future claim payments. in that case, the reserves may eventually be insufficient, resulting in the need to increase our reserves and/or increase our capital contributions to our insurance subsidiaries, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. our net periodic benefit costs and the value of our benefit obligations for our pension plans are determined based on a set of economic and demographic assumptions that represent our best estimate of future expected experience. major assumptions used in accounting for these plans include the expected discount (interest) rate and the long-term rate of return on plan assets. we set the discount rate assumption at the measurement date for each of our plans to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality fixed income debt instruments matched against the timing and amounts of projected future benefits. a lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases our costs. our expectations for the future investment returns of plan assets are based on a combination of historical market performance, evaluations of investment forecasts obtained from external consultants and economists, and current market yields. the rate of return on pension plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period. declines in long-term interest rates or the fair value of our plan assets may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. conversely, a rise in interest rates could unfavorably impact the fair value of certain investments in our pension plans. 17 see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and note 8 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. actual claim experience may differ from our reserve assumptions which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. in recent years, we have experienced volatility in risk results in various lines of business. historical results may not be indicative of future performance due to, among other things, changes in our mix of business, re-pricing of certain lines of business, or any number of economic cyclical effects on our business. reserves, whether calculated under gaap or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. actual claim experience may differ from our reserve assumptions. there can be no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. life expectancies may continue to increase, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives disability or long-term care benefits and could result in a change in mortality assumptions and an increase in reserves for these and other long-tailed products. adjustments to reserve amounts may also be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors); persistency; policy benefit offsets, including those for social security and other government-based welfare benefits; and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and notes 1 and 5 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. we and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation, which may affect the cost or demand for our products, increase capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and adversely affect our profitability, liquidity, or growth. our activities are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the united states and abroad. regulators have the ability to take various steps to protect the businesses of the entities they regulate. for example, our insurance company subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. these laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us, restrict transactions between subsidiaries and/or between us and our subsidiaries, and may require contributions of capital by us to our insurance subsidiaries even if we are otherwise in compliance with stated requirements. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws or regulations could result in restrictions on our ability to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. it is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are domiciled and operate. we cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. the naic or state regulators may adopt revisions to the rbc formula, the fsa may revise its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, other jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, including the bma, may increase their capital requirements, or rating agencies may incorporate higher capital thresholds into their quantitative analyses, thus requiring additional capital contributions by us to our insurance subsidiaries. increased financial services regulation, such as the naic solvency modernization initiative and the european commission's solvency ii, may impose greater quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and disclosure requirements and may impact the business strategies, capital requirements, and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. new programs, including healthcare reform and financial services sector reform, may compete with or diminish the need for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace. 18 legislative changes related to pension funding requirements could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and our profitability. changes in tax laws and other regulations or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes. furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could be impacted by our future earnings levels. changes in tax laws could also make some of our products less attractive to consumers. we cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be, or whether, if at all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. dodd-frank directs existing and recently created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years. we cannot predict the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how or whether dodd-frank and such regulations will affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition, require us to raise additional capital, or result in a downgrade of our credit ratings. most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by the employee retirement income security act (erisa). changes to erisa enacted by congress or through judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability. the insurance departments in jurisdictions wherein our insurance subsidiaries conduct business may limit our ability to obtain rate increases under guaranteed renewable contracts or could require changes in rates and/or benefits to meet minimum loss ratio requirements which could negatively impact the profitability of our products. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. these actions could result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in our claims handling or other business practices, changes in procedures for the identification and escheatment of abandoned property, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, increases to reserving requirements, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, assessments by tax authorities or other governing agencies, fines, and other administrative action, which could injure our reputation, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, and/or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and notes 6 and 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. in addition to interest rate risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. default risk our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer's industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, unforeseen accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer's marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations. in the european union, the sovereign debt crisis, concerns over bank exposure to sovereign debt, and questions about the stability and viability of the euro may result in an issuer defaulting on its obligations. financial contagion may occur at both the international and domestic levels. our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk. events or developments, such as economic conditions that impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio. events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector. a default results in the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment loss on the investment. a default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us. the probability of credit downgrades and defaults increases when the fixed income markets experience periods of volatility and illiquidity. 19 credit spread risk our exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads may unfavorably impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of the investment portfolio and may adversely impact liquidity. credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities. valuation risk we report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at market value. valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, particularly during periods of market disruption, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we evaluate our investment portfolio for impairments. there can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken. additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. any event reducing the value of our securities other than on a temporary basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. market timing and liquidity risk while we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, there may at times be a lack of appropriate investments in the market which can be acquired. in addition, we may in certain circumstances need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. events such as these may force us to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of our investments and derivatives. the effectiveness of our hedging programs may be affected by changes in the economic environment, changes in interest rates, capital market volatility, non-performance by our counterparties, changes in the level of required collateral, or regulation, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we use derivative financial instruments to help us manage certain risks related to our business operations, primarily interest rate risk, risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities, and foreign currency risk. factors associated with derivative financial instruments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. ineffectiveness of our hedges due to changes in expected future events, such as the risk created by uncertainty in the european economic environment or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance by our counterparties, many of which are financial institutions. non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind hedges, and we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged. under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral, which may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral. changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute effective hedges due to the increased economic cost of hedges. 20 competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability. all of our businesses are highly competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, quality of customer service and claims management, integrated product choices, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. we compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability. the level and intensity of competition may grow due to existing competitors becoming more aggressive, new competitors entering the market, and an increase in merger and acquisition activity which may result in larger competitors with greater financial resources. there are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies and new competitors in the future, which may adversely affect our market share or profitability. see "competition" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. a decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may adversely affect our competitive position, our ability to hedge our risks, and our cost of capital or ability to raise capital, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. a downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. a downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to unum group can be expected to adversely affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise additional capital. if we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our derivatives financial instrument contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts. such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks. see "ratings" contained herein in item 1 and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. there are many events which may harm our reputation, including, but not limited to, those discussed in this item 1a regarding regulatory investigations, legal proceedings, and cyber security incidents. in addition, as an insurance company, we are paid to accept certain risks. those who conduct our business, including executive officers and members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, and to some extent, independent agents and brokers, do so in part by making decisions that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline, maintaining effective claim management and customer service performance, managing our investment portfolio and derivatives trading activities, delivering effective technology solutions, complying with established sales practices, executing our capital management strategy, exiting a line of business and/or pursuing strategic growth initiatives, and other decisions. although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks or unintentionally failing to comply with internal policies and practices such that errors occur, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures will be effective. if our employees and business associates take excessive risks and/or fail to comply with internal policies and practices, the impact of those events may damage our market position and reputation. depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital and/or increase our cost of capital. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and note 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on regulatory matters and legal proceedings. 21 we provide a broad array of disability, long-term care, group life, and voluntary insurance products that are affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. disability insurance disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence and recoveries for disability insurance. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses. claim durations may be extended by medical improvements which could extend life expectancies. the relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. the pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ among product classes. our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business. guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market. long-term care insurance long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products. this creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval which can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all. we monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends. changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves. mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives long-term care benefits and may subject more policyholders to advanced aging and an associated increase in claims incidence. due to the long duration of the product, we may be unable to purchase appropriate assets with cash flows and durations such that the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. sustained periods of low interest rates could result in lower than expected profitability and increases in reserves. group life insurance group life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks and natural disasters, which may also affect the availability of reinsurance coverage. there are a series of lawsuits pending in federal courts challenging the use of retained asset accounts in group life plans that are governed by erisa. if these challenges are upheld by the courts, our ability to use such accounts for the beneficiaries of these plans may be adversely affected. voluntary products voluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics. our voluntary life insurance products generally include interest-sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate. it is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate. the non-life contracts are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products. 22 see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1 and "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. our risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. we have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, operations, capital and liquidity, and reputational risks. however, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for managing risk may not fully predict future exposures. see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further information about our risk management program. litigation is common in our businesses and may result in financial losses and/or harm to our reputation. we are defendants in a number of lawsuits, and the outcome of these lawsuits is uncertain. an estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings. as part of our normal operations in managing claims, we are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. we expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and note 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings. changes in accounting standards may materially affect our financial statements. our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, in both the united states and the united kingdom, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the u.s. financial accounting standards board (fasb), the u.k. accounting standards board (asb), and the naic. accounting standards issued by the fasb and asb may be influenced by the international accounting standards board (iasb). these authoritative bodies have several ongoing projects regarding accounting standards that will likely be adopted in the near future. future accounting standards we adopt will change current accounting and disclosure requirements applicable to our financial statements. such changes may have a material effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition. currency translation could materially impact our reported operating results. the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our financial results. in periods when the pound weakens, translating pounds into dollars decreases current period results relative to the prior period. in periods when the pound strengthens, translating pounds into dollars increases current period results in relation to the prior period. however, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert pounds into dollars. as a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. 23 our ability to finance our ongoing operations may not always be possible solely from internal sources of capital and liquidity. if we need to seek external capital, there is the risk that adverse market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital or our cost of capital. a change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations. deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in this item 1a may impose higher capital or reserve requirements on our insurance subsidiaries, increase collateral requirements for certain of our derivatives transactions, and/or implement other requirements which could unfavorably affect our liquidity. without sufficient liquidity, our ability to maintain and grow our operations would be limited. if our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing will be small, but changes in our business could increase our need. if our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus is considered important not only by us but by insurance regulatory authorities in the u.s., the fsa in the u.k., and the rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary's ability to distribute funds to the holding company and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our debt and other payment obligations. our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds or other assets to affiliates. the level of statutory earnings and capital in our insurance subsidiaries could impact their ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to our holding companies, which could impair our ability to pay our dividends or meet our debt and other payment obligations. obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be complicated in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty. the markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. the availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock in unum group. see "liquidity and capital resources" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion and note 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for a discussion of the existing regulatory limitations on dividends. reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. as part of our overall risk management and capital management strategies, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and may impact the level of capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business, result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue, and increase our capital requirements. the collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we have assets which may not be fully recoverable or realizable, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. if our business does not perform well or as initially anticipated in our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment loss on intangible assets or long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset. 24 we have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (dac), value of business acquired (voba), and goodwill. dac and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for dac and voba is performed on an annual basis. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either dac and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary, we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate and information technology software, also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we may be unable to recover the carrying amount. we assess our deferred tax assets to determine if they are realizable. factors in our determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate future taxable income. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established with a corresponding charge to net income. charges such as accelerated amortization, impairment losses, or the establishment of valuation allowances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 6, and 12 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information and damage to our reputation and could impair our ability to conduct business effectively, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, a cyber security breach or other information technology systems failure, a terrorist attack, or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those problems affect our information technology systems and destroy valuable data. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our employees were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. we rely heavily on information technology systems to administer almost every aspect of our business. we also store confidential policyholder and employee information and other proprietary information as a part of our normal business operations. our systems are subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to, physical and electronic break-ins, cyber attacks, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering, including threats that may come from external factors or may originate internally from within our company. if one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize confidential, proprietary, and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our information technology systems, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers' operations, which could result in reputational harm, litigation, increased expenses, regulatory penalties, and/or customer dissatisfaction or loss, which could adversely impact our profitability, our business, and our reputation. maintaining security systems to protect our information technology systems and data is critical to our reputation. we seek to prevent, detect, and investigate security incidents to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases we may be unaware of emerging threats and the magnitude of their effects, or we may not become aware of a cyber incident for some time after it occurs, which could increase our exposure to these consequences. we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides coverage for network security, privacy liability, technology errors and omissions, media liability, first party network business interruption, electronic restoration, and cyber extortion. this coverage also provides sub-limits for credit monitoring, notification costs, regulatory expense, and investigative expense. our insurance may not provide adequate loss coverage in all circumstances. 25 the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of certain assets in our investment portfolio, disrupt our operations, or result in higher claim costs. the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military actions, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in the global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, business disruption, and reduced economic activity. some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad. in addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. beyond obtaining insurance coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events away from us. we purchase reinsurance protection against catastrophic disaster events, including terrorism. the continued threat of terrorism could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. see "reinsurance" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to various market risk exposures, including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding our risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating our overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. see "investments" contained herein in item 7 and notes 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate changes results from our holdings of financial instruments such as fixed rate investments, derivatives, and interest-sensitive liabilities. fixed rate investments include fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, and short-term investments. fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and redeemable preferred stock, all of which are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations. certain of our financial instruments, fixed maturity securities and derivatives, are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of these financial instruments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. a rise in interest rates may decrease the net unrealized gain related to these financial instruments, but may improve our ability to earn higher rates of return on new purchases of fixed maturity securities. conversely, a decline in interest rates may increase the net unrealized gain, but new securities may be purchased at lower rates of return. although changes in fair value of fixed maturity securities and derivatives due to changes in interest rates may impact amounts reported in our consolidated balance sheets, these changes will not cause an economic gain or loss unless we sell investments, terminate derivative positions, determine that an investment is other than temporarily impaired, or determine that a derivative instrument is no longer an effective hedge. other fixed rate investments, such as mortgage loans and policy loans, are carried at amortized cost and unpaid balances, respectively, rather than fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. these investments may have fair values substantially higher or lower than the carrying values reflected in our balance sheets. a change in interest rates could impact our financial position if we sold our mortgage loan investments at times of low market value. a change in interest rates would not impact our financial position at repayment of policy loans, as ultimately the cash surrender values or death benefits would be reduced for the carrying value of any outstanding policy loans. carrying amounts for short-term investments approximate fair value, and we believe we have minimal interest rate risk exposure from these investments. we believe that the risk of being forced to liquidate investments or terminate derivative positions is minimal, primarily due to the level of capital at our insurance subsidiaries, the level of cash and marketable securities at our holding companies, and our investment strategy which we believe provides for adequate cash flows to meet the funding requirements of our business. we may in certain circumstances, however, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. although our policy benefits are primarily in the form of claim payments and we therefore have minimal exposure to the policy withdrawal risk associated with deposit products such as individual life policies or annuities, the fair values of liabilities under all insurance contracts are taken into consideration in our overall management of interest rate risk, which minimizes exposure to changing interest rates through the matching of investment cash flows with amounts due under insurance contracts. changes in interest rates and individuals' behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. we actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to limit interest rate risk. due to the long duration of our long-term care product, we may be unable to purchase appropriate assets with cash flows and durations such that the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. sustained periods of low interest rates could result in lower than expected profitability or increases in reserves. we model and test asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios enables us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to limit the risk of disadvantageous outcomes. we use this analysis in determining hedging strategies and utilizing derivative financial instruments. we use current and forward interest rate swaps, options on forward interest rate swaps, and forward treasury locks to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. 92 long-term debt is not carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. if we modify or replace existing long-term debt instruments at current market rates, we may incur a gain or loss on the transaction. we believe our debt-related risk to changes in interest rates is relatively minimal. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. we measure our financial instruments' market risk related to changes in interest rates using a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates potential changes in fair values as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 based on a hypothetical immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels. the selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. the hypothetical potential changes in fair value of our financial instruments at december 31, 2012 and 2011 are shown as follows: december 31, 2012 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 44,973.0 $ 41,290.1 $ (3,682.9 ) mortgage loans 1,937.1 1,847.2 (89.9 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 302.6 283.5 (19.1 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and other (2) $ (5,993.0 ) $ (3,267.5 ) $ 2,725.5 long-term debt (2,968.8 ) (2,780.3 ) 188.5 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,432.8 $ (88.9 ) $ (146.4 ) $ (57.5 ) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (83.9 ) (92.3 ) (8.4 ) december 31, 2011 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 42,486.7 $ 38,912.6 $ (3,574.1 ) mortgage loans 1,789.8 1,716.2 (73.6 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 286.1 270.0 (16.1 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and other (2) $ (5,007.3 ) $ (2,326.4 ) $ 2,680.9 long-term debt (2,540.2 ) (2,400.6 ) 139.6 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,413.0 $ (36.0 ) $ (118.8 ) $ (82.8 ) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (135.7 ) (138.4 ) (2.7 ) (1) these assets and liabilities are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates may affect the fair value at which the item is reported in our consolidated balance sheets. the corresponding offsetting change is reported in other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes, except for changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative which is reported as a component of net realized investment gain or loss. (2) the adjustment to reserves and other for unrealized investment gains and losses reflects the adjustments to deferred acquisition costs and policyholder liabilities that would be necessary if the unrealized investment gains and losses related to the fixed maturity securities and derivatives had been realized. changes in this adjustment are also reported as a component of other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes. 93 the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities was estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values shown in the chart above for all other items were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. foreign currency risk the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. we are exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in the british pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rates primarily as they relate to the translation of the financial results of our u.k. operations. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results. we do not hedge against the possible impact of this risk. because we do not actually convert pounds into dollars except for a limited number of transactions, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. assuming the pound to dollar exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2012 and 2011 levels, stockholders' equity as reported in u.s. dollars as of and for the periods then ended would have been lower by approximately $109.5 million and $107.9 million , respectively. assuming the pound to dollar average exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the actual average exchange rates for 2012 and 2011 , segment operating income, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses and income tax, as reported in u.s. dollars would have decreased approximately $12.6 million and $18.8 million , respectively, for the years then ended. dividends paid by unum limited are generally held at our u.k. finance subsidiary or our u.k. holding company. if these funds are repatriated to our u.s. holding company, we would at that time be subject to foreign currency risk as the value of the dividend, when converted into u.s. dollars, would be dependent upon the foreign exchange rate at the time of conversion. we are also exposed to foreign currency risk related to certain foreign investment securities denominated in local currencies and u.s. dollar-denominated debt issued by one of our u.k. subsidiaries. we use current and forward currency swaps to hedge or minimize the foreign exchange risk associated with these instruments. see "consolidated operating results" and "unum uk segment" contained herein in item 7 for further information concerning foreign currency translation. risk management effectively taking and managing risks is essential to the success of our company. to facilitate this effort, we have a formal enterprise risk management (erm) program, with a framework comprising the following key components: risk culture and governance risk appetite policy risk identification and prioritization risk and capital modeling risk management activities risk reporting through adherence to the objectives highlighted by the key components of our erm framework, we believe we are better positioned to fulfill our corporate mission, improve and protect stockholder value, and reduce reputational risk. 94 risk culture and governance we employ a decentralized risk management model under which risk-based decisions are made daily on a local level. to achieve long-term success, we believe risk management must be the responsibility of all employees. the individual and collective decisions of our employees play a key role in successfully managing our overall risk profile. we strive for a culture of accountability, risk management, and strict compliance, and we believe these values allow our employees to feel comfortable identifying issues as well as taking ownership for addressing potential problems. our risk culture is reinforced by our system of risk governance. we employ a multi-layered risk control system. our three lines of defense model is depicted below. 1st line: the business 2nd line: risk and control 3rd line: independent review all unum employees risk committees and chief risk officer internal audit and internal controls frontline business management chief actuary audit committee of unum group board compliance officers and staff unum group board business units are primarily responsible for managing their principal risks. our risk committees, chief risk officer (cro), chief actuary, and compliance officers and staff serve in risk and control functions responsible for providing risk oversight, or the second line of risk control. the internal audit team and internal controls team provide a second level of independent review, or our third line of risk control. the audit committee of unum group's board of directors (the board) oversees the entire erm governance process, effectively providing independent review for our third line of risk control. the board has an active role, as a whole and through its committees, in overseeing management of our risks. the board is responsible for managing strategic risk and regularly reviews information regarding our capital, liquidity, and operations, as well as the risks associated with each, and receives an erm report from our cro at least annually, or more frequently as appropriate. the audit committee of the board is responsible for oversight of our risk management process, including financial risk, operational risk, and any other risk not specifically assigned to another board committee. the cro provides a report on our risks and risk management processes to the audit committee of the board at least quarterly. the finance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks associated with investments, capital, and related financial matters. the human capital committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to our compensation plans and programs. the cro performs an annual risk assessment of our incentive compensation programs to ensure incentive plans are balanced and consistent with the risk levels embedded in our financial and business plans. results of this assessment are presented to our human capital committee of the board annually, and conclusions from this assessment are reported in our proxy statement. the regulatory compliance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks related to regulatory, compliance, policy, and legal matters, both current and emerging, and whether of a local, state, federal, or international nature. while each committee is responsible for evaluating certain risks and overseeing the management of such risks, the entire board is regularly informed through committee reports about such risks in addition to the risk information it receives directly. the executive risk management committee is responsible for overseeing our enterprise-wide risk management program. the cro, who is a member of the executive risk management committee, has primary responsibility for our erm program and is supported by corporate risk committees and by the risk committees of our primary operating segments. operating segment risk committees for unum us, unum uk, colonial life, and closed block are responsible for oversight of risks specific to their businesses. these committees are responsible for identifying, measuring, reporting, and managing insurance and operational risks within their respective areas, consistent with enterprise risk management guidance. corporate risk committees oversee the operational, global technology services, investment, and capital management risks on a corporate level. risk appetite policy our risk appetite policy describes the types of risks we are willing to take, as well as the amount of enterprise risk exposure we deem acceptable in pursuit of our goals, with an objective of clearly defining boundaries for our risk-taking activities. 95 the starting point of our philosophy and approach to our erm strategy is our corporate strategy. in contrast to many multi-line peer companies, we do not offer retirement savings, traditional medical benefits, or property and casualty insurance. our corporate strategy is focused on providing group, individual, and voluntary benefits, either as stand-alone products or combined with other coverages, that create comprehensive benefits solutions for employers. we have market leadership positions in the product lines we offer and have over 160 years of experience. we believe this combination of focused expertise and extensive experience is a competitive advantage and forms the foundation of our approach to risk management. we believe our sound and consistent business practices, strong internal compliance program, and comprehensive risk management strategy enable us to operate efficiently and to identify and address potential areas of risk in our business. we take and manage risks to achieve our business and strategic objectives, and our risk appetite statement sets boundaries for risk-taking activities that link earnings, capital, and operational processes, as well as summarizes our most material risk limits and controls. we monitor our risk profile against our established risk tolerance and limits. risks falling outside our risk tolerance and limits are reported to the applicable governance group, where decisions are made pertaining to acceptance of the risk or implementation of remediation plans or corrective actions as deemed appropriate by that governance group. risk identification and prioritization risk identification and prioritization is an ongoing process, whereby we identify and assess our risk positions and exposures, including notable risk events. additionally, we identify emerging risks and analyze how material future risks might affect us. knowing the potential risks we face allows us to monitor and manage their potential effects including adjusting our strategies as appropriate and holding capital levels which provide financial flexibility. risk committees have primary responsibility for identifying and prioritizing risks within their respective areas. in addition, we maintain a risk, ethics, and compliance (rec) leaders program. the goal of the program is to further embed rec management into our culture in a visible and effective manner. this group assists with the early identification of issues, timely referrals, problem solving, and communication. individual employees can report material concerns and identified risks through a variety of options, such as discussion with management, contacting a rec leader or the erm team, or utilizing the company's anonymous hotline and electronic reporting mechanism. we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. for additional information on certain risks that may adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1 and "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. risk and capital modeling we assess material risks, including how they affect us and how individual risks interrelate, to provide valuable information to management in order that they may effectively manage our risks. we use qualitative and quantitative approaches to assess existing and emerging risks and to develop mitigating strategies to limit our exposure to both. we utilize stress testing and scenario analysis for risk management and to shape our business, financial, and strategic planning activities. both are key components of our risk appetite policy and play an important role in monitoring, assessing, managing, and mitigating our primary risk exposures. in particular, stress testing of our capital and liquidity management strategies enables us to identify areas of high exposure, assess mitigating actions, develop contingency plans, and guide decisions around our target capital and liquidity levels. for example, we periodically perform stress tests on certain categories of assets or liabilities to support development of capital and liquidity risk contingency plans. these tests help ensure that we have a buffer to support our operations in uncertain times and financial flexibility to respond to market opportunities. stress testing is also central to reserve adequacy testing, cash flow testing, and asset and liability management. in addition, we aim to constantly improve our capital modeling techniques and methodologies that are used to determine a level of capital that is commensurate with our risk profile and to ensure compliance with evolving regulatory and rating agency requirements. our capital modeling reflects appropriate aggregation of risks and diversification benefits resulting from our mix of products and business units. 96 our internal capital modeling and allocation aids us in making significant business decisions including strategic planning, capital management, risk limit determination, reinsurance purchases, hedging activities, asset allocation, pricing, and corporate development. risk management activities we accept and manage strategic, credit, and insurance risks in accordance with our corporate strategy, investment policy, and annual business plans. the following fundamental principles are embedded in our risk management efforts across our company. we believe in the benefits of specialization and a focused business strategy. we seek profitable risk-taking in areas where we have established risk management skills and capabilities. we seek to manage our exposure to insurance risk through a combination of prudent underwriting with effective risk selection, maintaining pricing discipline, sound reserving practices, and high quality claims management. detailed underwriting guidelines and claim policies are tools used to manage our insurance risk exposure. we also monitor exposures against internally prescribed limits, and we diversify to reduce potential concentration risk and volatility. we maintain a detailed set of investment policies and guidelines, including fundamental credit analysis, that are used to manage our credit risk exposure and diversify our risks across asset classes and issuers. finally, we foster a risk culture that embeds our corporate values and our code of conduct in our daily operations and preserves our reputation with customers and other key stakeholders. we monitor a composite set of operational risk metrics that measure operating effectiveness from the customer perspective. risk reporting regular internal and external risk reporting is an integral part of our erm framework. internally, erm reports are a standard part of our quarterly senior management and board meetings. the reports summarize our existing and emerging risk exposures, as well as report against the tolerances and limits defined by our risk appetite policy. externally, we are subject to a number of regulatory and rating agency risk examinations, and risk reports are often included. by 2015, we must comply with the orsa requirements, which are intended to become a regular part of reviews of insurers' erm programs. we believe the orsa will provide strong evidence of the strengths of our erm framework, measurement approaches, key assumptions utilized in assessing our risks, and prospective solvency assessments under both normal and stressed conditions. we have implemented, and will continue to implement, actions to prepare for compliance with this evolving standard. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 for additional information regarding the orsa. 97risk factors 18 11 regulation we and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive and comprehensive supervision and regulation both in the united states and in the united kingdom. the laws and regulations with which we must comply are complex and subject to change. new or existing laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. as a result of the financial market and economic challenges over the past few years, regulation and the cost of compliance with regulation has continued to increase. insurance regulation and oversight our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and oversight by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they do business and by the u.s. department of labor (dol) on a national basis, primarily for the protection of policyholders. state insurance departments in the u.s. generally have broad powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business, including the power to: license and examine insurance companies; regulate and supervise sales practices and market conduct; license agents and brokers; approve policy forms; approve premium rates for certain insurance products; establish reserve requirements and solvency standards; place limitations on shareholder dividends; prescribe the form and content of required financial statements and reports; regulate the types and amounts of permitted investments; and regulate reinsurance transactions. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are examined periodically by their states of domicile and by other states in which they are licensed to conduct business. the domestic examinations have traditionally emphasized financial matters from the perspective of protection of policyholders, but they can and have covered other subjects that an examining state may be interested in reviewing, such as market conduct issues. examinations in other states more typically focus on market conduct, such as a review of a sales practices, including the content and use of advertising materials and the licensing and appointing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, and customer service practices, and identification and handling of unclaimed property to determine compliance with state laws. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessments by state insurance guaranty associations to cover the proportional cost of insolvent or failed insurers. the dol enforces a comprehensive federal statute which regulates claims paying fiduciary responsibilities and reporting and disclosure requirements for most employee benefit plans. our u.k. insurance subsidiary, unum limited, is subject to dual regulation by the prudential regulation authority (pra) and the financial conduct authority (fca), both of which replaced the financial services authority (fsa) effective april 1, 2013. the pra oversees the financial health and stability of financial services firms and is responsible for the prudential regulation and day-to-day supervision of insurance companies. the fca seeks to protect consumers and takes over the authority in that area previously exercised by the fsa in overseeing financial services products and practices, including those governing insurance companies in the u.k. capital requirements risk based capital (rbc) standards for u.s. life insurance companies have been prescribed by the national association of insurance commissioners (naic). the domiciliary states of our u.s. insurance subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the rbc model formula of the naic, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers. the basis of the system is a risk-based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer's business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. the life and health rbc formula is designed to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks. the formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. the formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers generally. the naic's solvency modernization initiative (smi) began in june 2008. the smi is a self-examination of the united states' insurance solvency regulation framework and includes a review of international developments regarding insurance supervision, banking supervision, and international accounting standards and their potential use in u.s. insurance regulation. the smi is a wide-ranging initiative that, by its nature, will evolve to respond to national and international insurance regulatory and solvency developments. current smi goals and the principles developed through the smi's exploration of capital requirements, governance and risk management, group supervision, statutory accounting and financial reporting, and reinsurance will likely result in significant changes to u.s. insurance regulation and solvency standards, including those for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries. progress on the various initiatives is expected to continue throughout 2014. 12 during 2012, the naic established a subgroup to study the insurance industry's use of captive reinsurers and special purpose vehicles to transfer insurance risk and is considering ways to promote uniformity in both the approval and supervision of such reinsurers. we are currently unable to predict the ultimate outcome of the naic's study. although we believe it to be unlikely, a potential outcome of the naic study is that companies could be prohibited from using captive reinsurers. the expected effect of such prohibition would depend on the specific changes to state regulations that might be adopted as a result of the naic study, including whether current captive reinsurers would be allowed to continue in existence or, if not, the method and timing of their dissolution, as well as the cost and availability of alternative reinsurance vehicles. at this time, given the uncertainty around the ultimate outcome of these matters, we are unable to estimate the potential impact on our risk-based capital ratios and/or liquidity should the use of captive reinsurers be limited or prohibited. no changes in the use or regulation of captive reinsurers have been proposed by the naic, and it is too early to predict the extent of any changes that might be made. accordingly, we expect to continue our strategy of using captive reinsurers to manage risks and enhance capital efficiency while monitoring the naic's study and proposed changes in regulations. see "reinsurance" contained herein in this item 1 for further discussion. the pra has statutory requirements, including capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and minimum solvency margins, to which unum limited must adhere. current solvency standards require an insurance company to hold capital equal to the greater of (i) a formulaic calculation of capital related to liabilities or (ii) a risk-based assessment of capital which is company specific reflecting the insurance company's individual risk profile. solvency ii, a european union directive that will prescribe new capital requirements and risk management standards that are the result of a fundamental review of the capital adequacy standards for the european insurance industry, will replace the current capital requirements for unum limited. our european holding company will also be subject to the solvency ii requirements relevant to insurance holding companies, and its subsidiaries, including unum limited, will be subject to group supervision under solvency ii. solvency ii requirements have not been fully finalized, but the current proposals contain amended requirements on capital adequacy and risk management for insurers, including (i) requirements to demonstrate adequate financial resources, including quantitative requirements, technical provisions, and calculation of solvency ii capital requirements through either an approved full or partial internal model or the european standard formula approach, (ii) requirements to demonstrate an adequate system of governance, including effective risk management underpinned by prospective risk identification and quantification, and (iii) disclosure and regulatory reporting requirements. the effective adoption date is expected to be january 1, 2016. the impact of solvency ii on our u.k. subsidiaries cannot be determined at this time, but its implementation could result in increased capital, supervisory, and disclosure requirements. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources" contained herein in item 7 and note 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. insurance holding company regulation we and our u.s. insurance subsidiaries (excluding captive insurers) are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which they are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), which currently include maine, massachusetts, tennessee, south carolina, new york, and california. these laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including information concerning capital structure, ownership, management, financial condition, and certain intercompany transactions. transactions between an insurer and affiliates in the holding company system generally must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval by the domiciliary insurance regulator. in addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources - cash available from subsidiaries" contained herein in item 7. 13 there are a number of proposals to amend state insurance laws and regulations in ways that could affect us and our insurance subsidiaries. the naic has adopted or amended model laws on holding company regulation that provide for supervision of insurers at the corporate group level. although these changes are only beginning to be adopted by individual state regulators, it can be expected that most will ultimately adopt them in some form. the various proposals to implement group supervision include uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to rbc calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies. a completed activity within the smi includes the recent adoption by the naic of the risk management and own risk and solvency assessment model act and the own risk and solvency assessment (orsa) guidance manual which require insurers to provide a group-level perspective on the risks of the current and future business plans and the sufficiency of capital to support those risks. we expect to file our orsa summary report with the applicable insurance regulators in 2015. the laws of most states, including the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurance company or its holding company. where these laws apply to us, there can be no effective change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement containing specified information with the appropriate insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval of the proposed change. the usual measure for a presumptive change of control pursuant to these laws is the acquisition of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company, although this presumption is rebuttable. consequently, a person acquiring 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company without the prior approval of the insurance regulators in the state(s) of domicile of the insurance company(ies) sought to be acquired (or whose holding company is sought to be acquired) will be in violation of these laws. such a person may also be subject to one or more of the following actions: (i) injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the applicable insurance regulators; (ii) prohibition of voting of such shares; and (iii) other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulators. further, many states' insurance laws require that prior notification be given to state insurance regulators of a change in control of a non-domiciled insurance company doing business in the state. these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance regulators to disapprove the change in control; however, they do authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist, such as undue market concentration. any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-notification laws. these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. federal laws and regulations enacted in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank) effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the united states. dodd-frank directs various government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years. among other provisions, dodd-frank creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets, including requiring that certain swaps be executed through a centralized exchange or regulated facility and be cleared through a regulated clearinghouse and subjecting major swap participants to capital and margin (i.e., collateral) requirements, which will likely have the effect of increasing the costs of hedging generally and the credit risk posed by some counterparties. we use derivative transactions to help us manage certain risks in our business. new margin requirements for cleared and uncleared transactions are expected to require the posting of higher margin levels for our derivatives activities and also may narrowly restrict the range of eligible collateral, which may require us to hold more of our assets in cash or cash equivalents that generate lower yields than other investments. dodd-frank also established a financial stability oversight council (fsoc) with authority to subject systemically important financial companies (including non-bank financial companies such as us) to supervision and stricter prudential regulation by the board of governors of the federal reserve board, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, stress testing, and credit exposure, and in certain circumstances limitations on acquisitions or combinations, restrictions on product offerings, and/or requirements to sell assets. in april 2012, the fsoc adopted final rules for evaluating whether a non-bank financial company should be designated as systemically important. we have not been designated as a systemically important financial company, and based on the quantitative criteria set forth in the final rules, at this time we believe it is unlikely that we will be subject to such designation. 14 in addition, dodd-frank established a federal insurance office (fio) within the department of the treasury to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry (other than with respect to health insurance, certain long-term care insurance, and crop insurance), including identifying issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or the u.s. financial system and recommending insurers (potentially including us) that should be designated for stricter regulation. in december 2013, the fio released its report on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the united states. the report concludes that modernization and improvement are possible through a combination of steps by states and certain actions by the federal government. the report makes recommendations for enhanced uniformity and efficiency by states in the areas of insolvency and marketplace regulation and for direct federal involvement in certain areas, such as for the fio to engage in supervisory colleges and also to study and report on the manner in which personal information is used for insurance pricing and coverage purposes. we are subject to the laws and regulations generally applicable to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange relating to public reporting and disclosure, accounting and financial reporting, corporate governance, and securities trading. further, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and rules and regulations adopted under this regulation, have increased the requirements for us and other public companies in these and other areas. the usa patriot act of 2001 (patriot act) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. the patriot act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. anti-money laundering laws outside of the united states contain some similar provisions. additionally, other federal laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and regulations issued by the office of foreign asset's controls, as well as the u.k.'s bribery act of 2010, have increased requirements relating to identifying customers, prohibiting transactions with certain organizations or individuals, watching for and reporting suspicious transactions, responding to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, sharing information with other financial institutions, and requiring the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls. for further discussion of regulation, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. geographic areas operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our unum uk segment totaled $705.2 million, $865.5 million, and $877.8 million for 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. these amounts were approximately 6.8 percent, 8.3 percent, and 8.5 percent of consolidated operating revenue for 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. as of december 31, 2013, total assets and liabilities for our unum uk segment were $3.7 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, or approximately 6.2 percent and 5.9 percent of consolidated assets and liabilities, respectively. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency of our unum uk segment will impact our reported operating results. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. see "reporting segments" contained herein in item 1; "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7; and note 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum uk's operating results. employees at december 31, 2013, we had approximately 9,200 full-time employees. available information our internet website address is www.unum.com . we make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. 15 executive officers of the registrant our executive officers, all of whom are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by unum group's board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. name age position thomas r. watjen 59 president and chief executive officer and a director liston bishop iii 67 executive vice president and general counsel breege a. farrell 54 executive vice president and chief investment officer randall c. horn 61 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life christopher j. jerome 53 executive vice president, global services kevin p. mccarthy 58 executive vice president and chief operating officer john f. mcgarry 56 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, closed block operations richard p. mckenney 45 executive vice president and chief financial officer peter g. o'donnell 47 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk michael q. simonds 40 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us mr. watjen became president and chief executive officer in march 2003. he served as vice chairman and chief operating officer from may 2002 until march 2003. he became executive vice president, finance in june 1999 and assumed the additional risk management responsibilities in november 1999. mr. watjen originally joined a unum group predecessor company as executive vice president and chief financial officer in 1994. mr. bishop was named executive vice president and general counsel in october 2008. from august 1979 through september 2008, mr. bishop practiced corporate and securities law as a member of the law firm of miller &amp; martin pllc, except during the period from january 2005 through july 2007 when he was employed as deputy general counsel and corporate secretary of coca-cola enterprises inc. ms. farrell was named executive vice president and chief investment officer in august 2013, after having joined the company as senior vice president and chief investment officer in april 2011. before joining the company, she held a number of executive-level investment positions within the organization of the allstate corporation, a personal lines insurer, including as senior managing director of allstate investments, llc and certain affiliated companies from january 2010 to april 2011, and as managing director of these companies from august 2004 to january 2010. mr. horn was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life in may 2006. prior to that, he served as president and chief executive officer, colonial life from march 2004. before joining the company, he served as executive vice president of mutual of omaha insurance company from 1993 until 2003, having joined that company in 1981. mr. jerome was named executive vice president, global services in july 2013, after having served as senior vice president, global services from january 2012. he previously served as senior vice president, risk operations from july 2010, as senior vice president, underwriting &amp; service operations, unum us from may 2010, and as senior vice president, group underwriting operations from august 2006. mr. jerome originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1983. mr. mccarthy was named executive vice president and chief operating officer in january 2012. he served as president and chief executive officer of unum us from may 2007 through june 2013. he previously served as executive vice president, president, unum us from january 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, risk operations from january 2006. he previously served as executive vice president, underwriting from may 2003. mr. mccarthy originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1976. 16 mr. mcgarry was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, closed block operations in august 2013, after having served as executive vice president, individual disability and long-term care closed block operations from september 2012. he previously served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk from july 2010, and as senior vice president, benefits, individual disability, and national client group business, unum us from january 2010. prior to that, he served in various other capacities within unum us, including as senior vice president, benefits operations and risk management from march 2008 to january 2010, and as senior vice president, benefits operations from january 2006 to march 2008. mr. mcgarry originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1986. mr. mckenney was named executive vice president and chief financial officer in august 2009, having joined the company in july 2009. before joining the company, mr. mckenney served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of sun life financial inc., an international financial services company, from february 2007, having joined that company as executive vice president in september 2006. he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of genworth financial, inc., a global financial security company, from may 2004 until august 2006. mr. o'donnell was named president and chief executive officer, unum uk, in september 2012, after having joined the company as unum limited's chief financial officer in 2010. prior to joining unum limited, mr. o'donnell served as director of group finance at prudential plc, an international financial services company, from may 2008 to may 2010. he served as finance director at royal &amp; sunalliance plc, an international financial services company, from may 2005 to may 2008. mr. simonds was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us in july 2013, after having served as senior vice president and chief operating officer, unum us from june 2012. he previously served as senior vice president, growth operations, unum us from july 2010, and as senior vice president and chief marketing officer, unum us from march 2008. mr. simonds originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1994, left the company in 2000 to further his education and to serve as a consultant with mckinsey &amp; company, a global management consulting firm, and rejoined the company in 2003. 17 item 1a. risk factors we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. discussed below are certain factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases. see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1. unfavorable economic conditions may result in lower sales, lower premium growth and persistency, higher claims incidence, and longer claims duration, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, both in the united states, the united kingdom, and to a lesser extent, the broader global financial markets. a challenging business environment and volatile markets persisted through 2013 and may continue in 2014. adversity in the capital markets and the general economy may adversely affect our business and results of operations. in particular, factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses. given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, new product sales may be adversely affected. our premium growth may also be negatively impacted by lower premium growth from existing customers due to lower salary growth and lower growth in the number of employees covered under an existing policy. in addition, during such periods we may experience higher claims incidence, longer claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. sustained periods of low interest rates in the long-term investment market may adversely affect our reported net investment income and the discount rates used in reserving for our insurance products and projecting our pension obligations, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. continued low interest rates and yields on fixed income investments may cause the rates of return on our investment portfolio to decrease more than expected, leading to lower net investment income than assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products. an interest, or discount, rate is used in calculating reserves for our insurance products. we set our reserve discount rate assumptions based on our current and expected future investment yield for assets supporting the reserves, considering current and expected future market conditions. if the discount rate assumed in our reserve calculations is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets will not earn enough investment income to support our future claim payments. in that case, the reserves may eventually be insufficient, resulting in the need to increase our reserves and/or increase our capital contributions to our insurance subsidiaries, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. our net periodic benefit costs and the value of our benefit obligations for our pension plans are determined based on a set of economic and demographic assumptions that represent our best estimate of future expected experience. major assumptions used in accounting for these plans include the expected discount (interest) rate and the long-term rate of return on plan assets. we set the discount rate assumption at the measurement date for each of our plans to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality fixed income debt instruments matched against the timing and amounts of projected future benefits. a lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases our costs. our expectations for the future investment returns of plan assets are based on a combination of historical market performance, evaluations of investment forecasts obtained from external consultants and economists, and current market yields. the rate of return on pension plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period. declines in long-term interest rates or the fair value of our plan assets may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. conversely, a rise in interest rates could unfavorably impact the fair value of certain investments in our pension plans. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, "interest rate risk" contained herein in item 7a, and note 9 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. 18 actual claim experience may differ from our reserve assumptions which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. in recent years, we have experienced volatility in risk results in various lines of business. historical results may not be indicative of future performance due to, among other things, changes in our mix of business, re-pricing of certain lines of business, or any number of economic cyclical effects on our business. reserves, whether calculated under gaap or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. actual claim experience may differ from our reserve assumptions. there can be no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. life expectancies may continue to increase, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives disability or long-term care benefits and could result in a change in mortality assumptions and an increase in reserves for these and other long-tailed products. adjustments to reserve amounts may also be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors); persistency; policy benefit offsets, including those for social security and other government-based welfare benefits; and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and notes 1 and 6 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. we and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation, which may affect the cost or demand for our products, increase capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and adversely affect our profitability, liquidity, or growth. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the united states and abroad. the primary purpose of insurance regulation is to protect policyholders, not stockholders. to that end, applicable laws establish regulatory authorities, including state insurance departments in the united states and the pra in the united kingdom, with broad administrative powers over many aspects of the insurance business. for example, our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, we and our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. these laws and regulations can be complex and subject to differing interpretations and are regularly re-examined. existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. for example, they may restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us, restrict transactions between subsidiaries and/or between us and our subsidiaries, and may require contributions of capital by us to our insurance subsidiaries even if we are otherwise in compliance with stated requirements. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws or regulations could result in restrictions on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which they operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. it is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled and operate. we cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. the naic or state regulators may adopt revisions to the rbc formula, the pra may revise its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, or rating agencies may incorporate higher capital thresholds into their quantitative analyses, thus requiring additional capital contributions by us to our insurance subsidiaries. increased financial services regulation, such as the naic solvency modernization initiative and the european commission's solvency ii directive, may impose greater quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and disclosure requirements and may impact the business strategies, capital requirements, and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. new programs, including healthcare reform and financial services sector reform, may compete with or diminish the need or demand for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace. for example, although the patient protection and affordable care act (ppaca) reforms the business of health insurance and does not directly affect our insurance products, we believe it has indirectly led to lower product sales in recent periods as the attention of our brokers, agents, and customers has been diverted toward compliance with the legislation. 19 we use affiliated captive reinsurers for the limited purpose of reinsuring risks attributable to specified policies issued or reinsured by our insurance subsidiaries in order to effectively manage risks in connection with certain blocks of our business as well as to enhance our capital efficiency. if we were required to discontinue use of the captive reinsurers or to alter the structure of the captive reinsurance arrangements, our ability to maintain current risk-based capital (rbc) ratios and/or our capital deployment activities could be adversely affected. no changes in the use or regulation of captive reinsurers have been proposed by the naic, and it is too early to predict the potential impact of any changes that might be made. legislative changes related to pension funding requirements could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and our profitability. changes in tax laws and other regulations or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes. furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could be impacted by our future earnings levels. changes in tax laws could also make some of our products less attractive to consumers. we cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be, or whether, if at all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. dodd-frank directs existing and recently created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years. as a result of the regulations implemented thus far, regulations directed at some derivative activities and the implementation of central clearing rules have increased the cost of some hedging activities primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements. we cannot predict the requirements of the remaining regulations that will ultimately be adopted or how or whether such regulations will affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition, require us to raise additional capital, or result in a downgrade of our credit ratings. most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by the employee retirement income security act (erisa). changes to erisa enacted by congress or through judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability. the insurance departments in jurisdictions wherein our insurance subsidiaries conduct business may limit our ability to obtain rate increases under guaranteed renewable contracts or could require changes in rates and/or benefits to meet minimum loss ratio requirements which could negatively impact the profitability of our products. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. these actions could result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in our claims handling or other business practices, changes in procedures for the identification and payment to the states of benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, increases to reserving requirements, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, assessments by tax authorities or other governing agencies, fines, and other administrative action, which could injure our reputation, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, and/or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and notes 7 and 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. in addition to interest rate risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. default risk our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer's industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, unforeseen accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer's marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations. 20 our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk. events or developments, such as economic conditions that impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio. events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector. a default results in the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment loss on the investment. a default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us. the probability of credit downgrades and defaults increases when the fixed income markets experience periods of volatility and illiquidity. credit spread risk our exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads may unfavorably impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of the investment portfolio and may adversely impact liquidity. credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities. valuation risk we report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at fair value. valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, particularly during periods of market disruption, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we evaluate our investment portfolio for impairments. there can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken. additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. any event reducing the value of our securities other than on a temporary basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. market timing and liquidity risk while we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, there may at times be a lack of appropriate investments in the market which can be acquired. in addition, we may in certain circumstances need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. there may also be a limited market for certain of our investments, such as our private placement fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, and policy loans, which makes them more illiquid. in periods of market volatility or disruption, other of our securities may also experience reduced liquidity. if events occur wherein we need to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment or need to quickly sell securities which are illiquid, market prices may be lower than what we might realize under normal circumstances, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of our investments and derivatives. 21 the failure of cyber or other information security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems, could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we rely heavily on the effective operation of our information technology systems to administer almost every aspect of our business. we also store confidential policyholder and employee information and other proprietary information on our systems as a part of our normal business operations. these systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. we maintain security systems and implement measures to protect our information technology systems and data, but they may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. these threats may originate externally, such as from cyber criminals or other hackers, or internally from within our company, such as from employee error or malfeasance. in some cases we may be unaware of emerging threats and the magnitude of their effects, or we may not become aware of a cyber incident for some time after it occurs, which could increase our exposure. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, a cyber attack, cyber security breach or other information technology systems failure, a terrorist attack, or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those problems affect our information technology systems and destroy valuable data. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our employees were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. the failure of our information technology and/or disaster recovery systems for any reason could cause significant interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers' operations and result in the loss, theft, or failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions, legal claims, and increased expenses, lead to a loss of customers and revenues, and otherwise adversely impact our profitability and our business. while we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides coverage for network security, privacy liability, technology errors and omissions, media liability, first party network business interruption, electronic restoration, and cyber extortion (including sub-limits for credit monitoring, notification costs, regulatory expense, and investigative expense), our insurance may not provide adequate loss coverage in all circumstances. the effectiveness of our hedging programs may be affected by changes in the economic environment, changes in interest rates, capital market volatility, non-performance by our counterparties, changes in the level of required collateral, or regulation, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we use derivative financial instruments to help us manage certain risks related to our business operations, primarily interest rate risk, risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities, and foreign currency risk. factors associated with derivative financial instruments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. ineffectiveness of our hedges due to changes in expected future events, such as the risk created by uncertainty in the economic environment or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance by our counterparties, many of which are financial institutions. non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind hedges, and we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged. under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral, which may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral. changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute hedging strategies due to the increased economic cost of derivatives, primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements. 22 competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability. all of our businesses are highly competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, quality of customer service and claims management, integrated product choices, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. we compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability. the level and intensity of competition may grow due to existing competitors becoming more aggressive, new competitors entering the market, including those who enter the market as a result of healthcare reform, and an increase in merger and acquisition activity which may result in larger competitors with greater financial resources. there are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies and new competitors in the future, which may adversely affect our market share or profitability. see "competition" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. a decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may adversely affect our competitive position, our ability to hedge our risks, and our cost of capital or ability to raise capital, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. a downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. a downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to unum group can be expected to adversely affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise additional capital. if we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our derivatives financial instrument contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts. such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks. see "ratings" contained herein in item 1 and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. there are many events which may harm our reputation, including, but not limited to, those discussed in this item 1a regarding regulatory investigations, legal proceedings, and cyber or other information security incidents. in addition, as an insurance company, we are paid to accept certain risks. those who conduct our business, including executive officers and members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, and to some extent, independent agents and brokers, do so in part by making decisions that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline, maintaining effective claim management and customer service performance, managing our investment portfolio and derivatives trading activities, delivering effective technology solutions, complying with established sales practices, executing our capital management strategy, exiting a line of business and/or pursuing strategic growth initiatives, and other decisions. although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks or unintentionally failing to comply with internal policies and practices such that errors occur, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures will be effective. if our employees and business associates take excessive risks and/or fail to comply with internal policies and practices, the impact of those events may damage our market position and reputation. depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital and/or increase our cost of capital. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and note 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on regulatory matters and legal proceedings. 23 we provide a broad array of disability, long-term care, group life, and voluntary insurance products that are affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. disability insurance disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence and recoveries for disability insurance. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses. claim durations may be extended by medical improvements which could extend life expectancies. the relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. the pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ among product classes. our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business. guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market. long-term care insurance long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products. this creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval by our states of domicile and may also be subject to approval by jurisdictions in which our policyholders reside, which can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all. we monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends. changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves. mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives long-term care benefits and may subject more policyholders to advanced aging and an associated increase in claims incidence. medical advances may continue to have an impact on claim incidence and duration, both favorable and unfavorable. due to the long duration of the product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. sustained periods of low interest rates could result in increases in reserves and adversely affect our results of operations. group life insurance group life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, and pandemic health events, which may also affect the cost of and availability of reinsurance coverage. there are a series of lawsuits challenging the use of retained asset accounts in group life plans that are governed by erisa. if these challenges are upheld by the courts, our ability to use such accounts for the beneficiaries of these plans may be adversely affected. 24 voluntary products voluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics. our voluntary life insurance products generally include interest-sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate. it is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate. the non-life contracts are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1 and "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. our risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. we have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, operations, capital and liquidity, and reputational risks. however, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for monitoring and managing risk may not fully predict or mitigate future exposures. see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further information about our risk management program. litigation and contingencies are common in our businesses and may result in financial losses and/or harm to our reputation. we are, and in the future may be, defendants in a number of litigation matters, and the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. an estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings. as part of our normal operations in managing claims, we are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. we expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. beginning in 2011, a number of state regulators began requiring insurers to cross-check specified insurance policies with the social security administration's death master file to identify potential matches. if a potential match was identified, insurers were requested to determine if benefits were due, locate beneficiaries, and make payments where appropriate. we initiated this process where requested, and in 2012 we began implementing this process in all states on a forward-looking basis. in addition to implementing this on a forward-looking basis, in 2013 we began an initiative to search for potential claims from previous years. during the fourth quarter of 2013, we completed our assessment of benefits which we estimate will be paid under this initiative, and as such, established additional reserves for payment of these benefits. similar to other insurers, we are undergoing an examination by a third party acting on behalf of a number of state treasurers concerning our compliance with the unclaimed property laws of the participating states. we are cooperating fully with this examination, as well as with a delaware market conduct examination and a voluntary disclosure agreement process with the state of minnesota. the legal and regulatory environment around unclaimed death benefits continues to evolve. it is possible that the current examination and/or similar investigations by other state jurisdictions may result in additional payments to beneficiaries, the payment of abandoned funds under state law, and/or administrative penalties, the total of which may be in excess of the reserves established. 25 see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and note 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings. changes in accounting standards may materially affect our financial statements. our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, in both the united states and the united kingdom, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the u.s. financial accounting standards board (fasb), the u.k. accounting standards board (asb), and the naic. accounting standards issued by the fasb and asb may be influenced by the international accounting standards board (iasb). these authoritative bodies have several ongoing projects regarding accounting standards that will likely be adopted in the near future. future accounting standards we adopt will change current accounting and disclosure requirements applicable to our financial statements. such changes may have a material effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition. currency translation could materially impact our reported operating results. the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our financial results. in periods when the pound weakens, translating pounds into dollars decreases current period results relative to the prior period. in periods when the pound strengthens, translating pounds into dollars increases current period results in relation to the prior period. however, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert pounds into dollars. as a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. our ability to finance our ongoing operations may not always be possible solely from internal sources of capital and liquidity. if we need to seek external capital, there is the risk that adverse market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital or our cost of capital. a change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations. deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in this item 1a may impose higher capital or reserve requirements on our insurance subsidiaries, increase collateral requirements for certain of our derivatives transactions, and/or implement other requirements which could unfavorably affect our liquidity. without sufficient liquidity, our ability to maintain and grow our operations would be limited. if our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us. if our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus is considered important not only by us but by insurance regulatory authorities in the u.s., the pra in the u.k., and the rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary's ability to distribute funds to our holding companies. obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be complicated in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty. the markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. the availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock in unum group. 26 we rely on our credit facility as a potential source of liquidity. our right to borrow funds under this facility is subject to financial covenants, negative covenants, and events of default. our ability to borrow under this facility is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facility or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments would restrict our ability to access this facility when needed, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "liquidity and capital resources" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 8 and 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. as a holding company, unum group depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it so that it can meet its obligations and pay dividends. unum group is a holding company for insurance and other subsidiaries and has no significant operations of its own. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance laws and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds or other assets to affiliates, including to unum group. the level of earnings and capital in our subsidiaries, as well as business conditions and rating agency considerations, could impact our insurance and other subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to unum group, which could impair our ability to pay dividends to unum group's common stockholders, meet our debt and other payment obligations, and/or repurchase shares of unum group's common stock. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1,"liquidity and capital resources" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and note 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. as part of our overall risk management and capital management strategies, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and may impact the level of capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business, result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue, and increase our capital requirements. the collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we have assets which may not be fully recoverable or realizable, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. if our business does not perform well or as initially anticipated in our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment loss on intangible assets or long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset. we have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (dac), value of business acquired (voba), and goodwill. dac and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for dac and voba is performed on an annual basis. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either dac and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary, we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. 27 long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate and information technology software, also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we may be unable to recover the carrying amount. we assess our deferred tax assets to determine if they are realizable. factors in our determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate future taxable income. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established with a corresponding charge to net income. charges such as accelerated amortization, impairment losses, or the establishment of valuation allowances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 7, and 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of certain assets in our investment portfolio, disrupt our operations, or result in higher claim costs. the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military actions, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in the global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, business disruption, and reduced economic activity. some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad. in addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. beyond obtaining insurance coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events away from us. we purchase reinsurance protection against catastrophic disaster events, including terrorism. the continued threat of terrorism could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. see "reinsurance" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 89 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to various market risk exposures, including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding our risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating our overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. see "investments" contained herein in item 7 and notes 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate changes results from our holdings of financial instruments such as fixed rate investments, derivatives, and interest-sensitive liabilities. fixed rate investments include fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, and short-term investments. fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, public utility bonds, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and redeemable preferred stock, all of which are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations. certain of our financial instruments, fixed maturity securities and derivatives, are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of these financial instruments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. a rise in interest rates may decrease the net unrealized gain related to these financial instruments, but may improve our ability to earn higher rates of return on new purchases of fixed maturity securities. conversely, a decline in interest rates may increase the net unrealized gain, but new securities may be purchased at lower rates of return. although changes in fair value of fixed maturity securities and derivatives due to changes in interest rates may impact amounts reported in our consolidated balance sheets, these changes will not cause an economic gain or loss unless we sell investments, terminate derivative positions, determine that an investment is other than temporarily impaired, or determine that a derivative instrument is no longer an effective hedge. other fixed rate investments, such as mortgage loans and policy loans, are carried at amortized cost and unpaid balances, respectively, rather than fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. these investments may have fair values substantially higher or lower than the carrying values reflected in our balance sheets. a change in interest rates could impact our financial position if we sold our mortgage loan investments at times of low market value. a change in interest rates would not impact our financial position at repayment of policy loans, as ultimately the cash surrender values or death benefits would be reduced for the carrying value of any outstanding policy loans. carrying amounts for short-term investments approximate fair value, and we believe we have minimal interest rate risk exposure from these investments. we believe that the risk of being forced to liquidate investments or terminate derivative positions is minimal, primarily due to the level of capital at our insurance subsidiaries, the level of cash and marketable securities at our holding companies, and our investment strategy which we believe provides for adequate cash flows to meet the funding requirements of our business. we may in certain circumstances, however, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. although our policy benefits are primarily in the form of claim payments and we therefore have minimal exposure to the policy withdrawal risk associated with deposit products such as individual life policies or annuities, the fair values of liabilities under all insurance contracts are taken into consideration in our overall management of interest rate risk, which minimizes exposure to changing interest rates through the matching of investment cash flows with amounts due under insurance contracts. changes in interest rates and individuals' behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. we actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to limit interest rate risk. due to the long duration of our long-term care product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. we model and test asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios enables us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to limit the risk of disadvantageous outcomes. we use this analysis in determining hedging strategies and utilizing derivative financial instruments. we use current and forward interest rate swaps, options on forward interest rate swaps, and forward treasury locks to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. 89 long-term debt is not carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. if we modify or replace existing long-term debt instruments at current market rates, we may incur a gain or loss on the transaction. we believe our debt-related risk to changes in interest rates is relatively minimal. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. we measure our financial instruments' market risk related to changes in interest rates using a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates potential changes in fair values as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 based on a hypothetical immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels. the selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. the hypothetical potential changes in fair value of our financial instruments at december 31, 2013 and 2012 are shown as follows: december 31, 2013 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 42,344.4 $ 39,009.2 $ (3,335.2 ) mortgage loans 1,980.2 1,889.9 (90.3 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 295.9 278.0 (17.9 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and deferred acquisition costs (2) $ (3,886.3 ) $ (1,568.7 ) $ 2,317.6 long-term debt (2,824.4 ) (2,660.5 ) 163.9 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,477.4 $ (124.8 ) $ (139.7 ) $ (14.9 ) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (53.2 ) (62.1 ) (8.9 ) december 31, 2012 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 44,973.0 $ 41,290.1 $ (3,682.9 ) mortgage loans 1,937.1 1,847.2 (89.9 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 302.6 283.5 (19.1 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and deferred acquisition costs (2) $ (5,993.0 ) $ (3,267.5 ) $ 2,725.5 long-term debt (2,968.8 ) (2,780.3 ) 188.5 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,432.8 $ (88.9 ) $ (146.4 ) $ (57.5 ) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (83.9 ) (92.3 ) (8.4 ) (1) these financial instruments are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates may affect the fair value at which the item is reported in our consolidated balance sheets. the corresponding offsetting change is reported in other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes, except for changes in the fair value of derivatives accounted for as fair value hedges or derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, the offset of which is reported as a component of net realized investment gain or loss. 90 (2) the adjustment to reserves and deferred acquisition costs for unrealized investment gains and losses reflects the adjustments to policyholder liabilities and deferred acquisition costs that would be necessary if the unrealized investment gains and losses related to the fixed maturity securities and derivatives had been realized. changes in this adjustment are also reported as a component of other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities was estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values shown in the chart above for all other items were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. sustained periods of low interest rates may result in lower than expected profitability. assuming december 31, 2013 interest rates and credit spreads remained constant through 2015, our net investment income would decrease by approximately $0.5 million in 2014 and $6.5 million in 2015 relative to our current expectations. this interest rate scenario does not give consideration to the effect of other factors which could impact these results, such as changes in the bond market and changes in hedging strategies and positions, nor does it consider the potential change to our discount rate reserve assumption and any mitigating factors such as pricing adjustments. in addition, a continued low interest rate environment may also result in an increase in the net periodic benefit costs for our pension plans, but we do not believe it would materially affect net income in 2014 or 2015. foreign currency risk the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. we are exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in the british pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rates primarily as they relate to the translation of the financial results of our u.k. operations. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results. we do not hedge against the possible impact of this risk. because we do not actually convert pounds into dollars except for a limited number of transactions, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue and not a reflection of operations or profitability in our u.k. operations. assuming the pound to dollar exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2013 and 2012 levels, stockholders' equity as reported in u.s. dollars as of and for the periods then ended would have been lower by approximately $102.1 million and $109.5 million , respectively. assuming the pound to dollar average exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the actual average exchange rates for 2013 and 2012 , before-tax operating income, as reported in u.s. dollars would have decreased approximately $14.3 million and $12.6 million , respectively, for the years then ended. dividends paid by unum limited are generally held at our u.k. finance subsidiary or our u.k. holding company. if these funds are repatriated to our u.s. holding company, we would at that time be subject to foreign currency risk as the value of the dividend, when converted into u.s. dollars, would be dependent upon the foreign exchange rate at the time of conversion. we are also exposed to foreign currency risk related to certain foreign investment securities denominated in local currencies and u.s. dollar-denominated debt issued by one of our u.k. subsidiaries. we use current and forward currency swaps to hedge or minimize the foreign exchange risk associated with these instruments. see "consolidated operating results" and "unum uk segment" contained herein in item 7 for further information concerning foreign currency translation. 91 risk management effectively taking and managing risks is essential to the success of our company. to facilitate this effort, we have a formal enterprise risk management (erm) program, with a framework comprising the following key components: risk culture and governance risk appetite policy risk identification and prioritization risk and capital modeling risk management activities risk reporting our erm framework is the ongoing system of people, processes, and tools across our company under which we intend to function consistently and collectively to identify and assess risks and opportunities, to manage all material risks within our risk appetite, and to contribute to strategic decision making. with the goal of maximizing shareholder value, the primary objectives of our erm framework are to support unum group in meeting its operational and financial objectives, maintaining liquidity, preserving capital adequacy, and protecting franchise value. risk culture and governance we employ a decentralized risk management model under which risk-based decisions are made daily on a local level. to achieve long-term success, we believe risk management must be the responsibility of all employees. the individual and collective decisions of our employees play a key role in successfully managing our overall risk profile. we strive for a culture of accountability, risk management, and strict compliance, and we believe these values allow our employees to feel comfortable identifying issues as well as taking ownership for addressing potential problems. our risk culture is reinforced by our system of risk governance. we employ a multi-layered risk control system. our three lines of defense model is depicted below. 1st line: own and manage 2nd line: oversee 3rd line: independent assurance business processes and procedures employed throughout the company through which management assumes and monitors significant risks management committees chartered with oversight of activities within the 1st and 2nd lines of defense, mitigation of substantial exposures, and management of emerging risks independent review of erm framework and risk mitigation business units are primarily responsible for managing their principal risks. our risk committees and other management committees serve risk and control functions responsible for providing risk oversight, or the second line of risk control. the internal audit team provides a second level of independent review, or our third line of risk control. the audit committee of unum group's board of directors (the board) oversees the entire erm governance process, effectively providing independent review for our third line of risk control. the board has an active role, as a whole and through its committees, in overseeing management of our risks. the board is responsible for managing strategic risk and regularly reviews information regarding our capital, liquidity, and operations, as well as the risks associated with each. the audit committee of the board is responsible for oversight of our risk management process, including financial risk, operational risk, and any other risk not specifically assigned to another board committee. the chief risk officer (cro) provides a report on our risks and risk management processes to the audit committee of the board at least quarterly. the finance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks associated with investments, capital and financing plans and activities, and related financial matters, including matters pertaining to our closed block segment. the human capital committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to our compensation plans and programs. the cro performs an annual risk assessment of our incentive compensation programs to ensure incentive plans are balanced and consistent with the risk levels embedded in our financial and business plans. results of this assessment are presented to our human capital committee of the board annually, and conclusions from this assessment are reported in our proxy statement. the regulatory compliance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks related to regulatory, compliance, policy, and legal matters, both current and emerging, and whether of a local, state, federal, or international nature. while each committee is responsible for evaluating certain risks and overseeing the management of such risks, the entire board is regularly informed through committee reports about such risks in addition to the risk information it receives directly. 92 the executive risk management committee is responsible for overseeing our enterprise-wide risk management program. the cro, who is a member of the executive risk management committee, has primary responsibility for our erm program and is supported by corporate risk committees and by the risk committees of our primary operating segments. operating segment risk committees for unum us, unum uk, colonial life, and closed block are responsible for oversight of risks specific to their businesses. these committees are responsible for identifying, measuring, reporting, and managing insurance and operational risks within their respective areas, consistent with enterprise risk management guidance. corporate risk committees and other management committees oversee the operational, global technology services, investment, and capital management risks on a corporate level. risk appetite policy our risk appetite policy describes the types of risks we are willing to take, as well as the amount of enterprise risk exposure we deem acceptable in pursuit of our goals, with an objective of clearly defining boundaries for our risk-taking activities. the starting point of our philosophy and approach to our erm strategy is our corporate strategy. in contrast to many multi-line peer companies, we do not offer retirement savings, traditional medical benefits, or property and casualty insurance. our corporate strategy is focused on providing group, individual, and voluntary benefits, either as stand-alone products or combined with other coverages, that create comprehensive benefits solutions for employers. we have market leadership positions in the product lines we offer and believe this combination of focused expertise and experience is a competitive advantage and forms the foundation of our approach to risk management. we believe our sound and consistent business practices, strong internal compliance program, and comprehensive risk management strategy enable us to operate efficiently and to identify and address potential areas of risk in our business. we take and manage risks to achieve our business and strategic objectives, and our risk appetite statement sets boundaries for risk-taking activities that link earnings, capital, and operational processes, as well as summarizes our most material risk limits and controls. we monitor our risk profile against our established risk tolerance and limits. risks falling outside our risk tolerance and limits are reported to the applicable governance group, where decisions are made pertaining to acceptance of the risk or implementation of remediation plans or corrective actions as deemed appropriate by that governance group. risk identification and prioritization risk identification and prioritization is an ongoing process, whereby we identify and assess our risk positions and exposures, including notable risk events. additionally, we identify emerging risks and analyze how material future risks might affect us. knowing the potential risks we face allows us to monitor and manage their potential effects including adjusting our strategies as appropriate and holding capital levels which provide financial flexibility. risk committees have primary responsibility for identifying and prioritizing risks within their respective areas. in addition, we maintain a risk, ethics, and compliance (rec) leaders program. the goal of the program is to further embed rec management into our culture in a visible and effective manner. this group assists with the early identification of issues, timely referrals, problem solving, and communication. individual employees can report material concerns and identified risks through a variety of options, such as discussion with management, contacting a rec leader or the erm team, or utilizing the company's anonymous hotline and electronic reporting mechanism. we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. for additional information on certain risks that may adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1 and "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. 93 risk and capital modeling we assess material risks, including how they affect us and how individual risks interrelate, to provide valuable information to management in order that they may effectively manage our risks. we use qualitative and quantitative approaches to assess existing and emerging risks and to develop mitigating strategies to limit our exposure to both. we utilize stress testing and scenario analysis for risk management and to shape our business, financial, and strategic planning activities. both are key components of our risk appetite policy and play an important role in monitoring, assessing, managing, and mitigating our primary risk exposures. in particular, stress testing of our capital and liquidity management strategies enables us to identify areas of high exposure, assess mitigating actions, develop contingency plans, and guide decisions around our target capital and liquidity levels. for example, we periodically perform stress tests on certain categories of assets or liabilities to support development of capital and liquidity risk contingency plans. these tests help ensure that we have a buffer to support our operations in uncertain times and financial flexibility to respond to market opportunities. stress testing is also central to reserve adequacy testing, cash flow testing, and asset and liability management. in addition, we aim to constantly improve our capital modeling techniques and methodologies that are used to determine a level of capital that is commensurate with our risk profile and to ensure compliance with evolving regulatory and rating agency requirements. our capital modeling reflects appropriate aggregation of risks and diversification benefits resulting from our mix of products and business units. our internal capital modeling and allocation aids us in making significant business decisions including strategic planning, capital management, risk limit determination, reinsurance purchases, hedging activities, asset allocation, pricing, and corporate development. risk management activities we accept and manage strategic, credit, and insurance risks in accordance with our corporate strategy, investment policy, and annual business plans. the following fundamental principles are embedded in our risk management efforts across our company. we believe in the benefits of specialization and a focused business strategy. we seek profitable risk-taking in areas where we have established risk management skills and capabilities. we seek to manage our exposure to insurance risk through a combination of prudent underwriting with effective risk selection, maintaining pricing discipline, sound reserving practices, and claims operational effectiveness. detailed underwriting guidelines and claim policies are tools used to manage our insurance risk exposure. we also monitor exposures against internally prescribed limits, and we diversify to reduce potential concentration risk and volatility. we maintain a detailed set of investment policies and guidelines, including fundamental credit analysis, that are used to manage our credit risk exposure and diversify our risks across asset classes and issuers. finally, we foster a risk culture that embeds our corporate values and our code of conduct in our daily operations and preserves our reputation with customers and other key stakeholders. we monitor a composite set of operational risk metrics that measure operating effectiveness from the customer perspective. risk reporting regular internal and external risk reporting is an integral part of our erm framework. internally, erm reports are a standard part of our quarterly senior management and board meetings. the reports summarize our existing and emerging risk exposures, as well as report against the tolerances and limits defined by our risk appetite policy. externally, we are subject to a number of regulatory and rating agency risk examinations, and risk reports are often included. by 2015, we must comply with the orsa requirements, which are intended to become a regular part of reviews of insurers' erm programs. we believe the orsa will provide strong evidence of the strengths of our erm framework, measurement approaches, key assumptions utilized in assessing our risks, and prospective solvency assessments under both normal and stressed conditions. we have implemented, and will continue to implement, actions to prepare for compliance with this evolving standard. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 for additional information regarding the orsa. 94risk factors 18 competition there is significant competition among insurance companies for the types of products we sell. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, quality of customer service and claims management, integrated product choices, financial strength ratings, and claims-paying ratings. in the individual and group disability markets, we compete in the united states with a number of major companies and regionally with other companies offering specialty products. our principal competitors for our other products, including group life and the product offerings sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction, include the largest insurance companies in the united states. some of these companies have more competitive pricing or have higher claims-paying ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. in the united kingdom, we compete for the individual and group products we sell with a mix of large internationally recognized providers and strong local carriers. we have observed some of these providers aggressively trying to maintain or grow market share in a difficult economic environment, characterized by very low interest rates and expense pressures on employers and individuals. we believe the need for the types of products we offer is significant. in both the united states and the united kingdom, individuals and families often live paycheck to paycheck with a considerable chance of being out of work. pressure is also mounting on governments as to the sustainability of public assistance. based on current penetration levels, we believe there is substantial upside growth potential. 11 all areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of the group products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market. there is a risk that purchasers of employee benefits products may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us. the effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. we must attract and retain independent agents and brokers to actively market our products. strong competition exists among insurers for agents and brokers. we compete with other insurers for sales agents and brokers primarily on the basis of our product offerings, financial strength, support services, and compensation. sales of our products could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and brokers. for further discussion, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. regulation we and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive and comprehensive supervision and regulation both in the united states and in the united kingdom. the laws and regulations with which we must comply are complex and subject to change. new or existing laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. as a result of the financial market and economic challenges over the past few years, regulation and the cost of compliance with regulation has continued to increase. insurance regulation and oversight our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and oversight by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they do business and by the u.s. department of labor (dol) on a national basis, primarily for the protection of policyholders. state insurance departments in the u.s. generally have broad powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business, including the power to: license and examine insurance companies; regulate and supervise sales practices and market conduct; license agents and brokers; approve policy forms; approve premium rates for certain insurance products; establish reserve requirements and solvency standards; place limitations on shareholder dividends; prescribe the form and content of required financial statements and reports; regulate the types and amounts of permitted investments; and regulate reinsurance transactions. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are examined periodically by their states of domicile and by other states in which they are licensed to conduct business. the domestic examinations have traditionally emphasized financial matters from the perspective of protection of policyholders, but they can and have covered other subjects that an examining state may be interested in reviewing, such as market conduct issues. examinations in other states more typically focus on market conduct, such as a review of sales practices, including the content and use of advertising materials and the licensing and appointing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, and customer service practices, and identification and handling of unclaimed property to determine compliance with state laws. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessments by state insurance guaranty associations to cover the proportional cost of insolvent or failed insurers. the dol enforces a comprehensive federal statute which regulates claims paying fiduciary responsibilities and reporting and disclosure requirements for most employee benefit plans. our u.k. insurance subsidiary, unum limited, is subject to dual regulation by the prudential regulation authority (pra) and the financial conduct authority (fca). the pra oversees the financial health and stability of financial services firms and is responsible for the prudential regulation and day-to-day supervision of insurance companies. the fca seeks to protect consumers and oversees financial services products and practices, including those governing insurance companies in the u.k. capital requirements risk based capital (rbc) standards for u.s. life insurance companies are prescribed by the national association of insurance commissioners (naic). the domiciliary states of our u.s. insurance subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the rbc model formula of the naic, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers. the basis of the system is a risk-based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer's business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. the life and health rbc formula is designed to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks. the formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. the formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers generally. 12 the naic's solvency modernization initiative (smi) began in june 2008. the smi is a self-examination of the united states' insurance solvency regulation framework and includes a review of international developments regarding insurance supervision, banking supervision, and international accounting standards and their potential use in u.s. insurance regulation. the smi is a wide-ranging initiative that, by its nature, will evolve to respond to national and international insurance regulatory and solvency developments. current smi goals and the principles developed through the smi's exploration of capital requirements, governance and risk management, group supervision, statutory accounting and financial reporting, and reinsurance will likely result in significant changes to u.s. insurance regulation and solvency standards, including those for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries. although the smi has concluded, developments on these and related initiatives are expected to continue throughout 2015. during 2012, the naic established a subgroup to study the insurance industry's use of captive reinsurers and special purpose vehicles to transfer insurance risk and is considering ways to promote uniformity in both the approval and supervision of such reinsurers. we are currently unable to predict the ultimate outcome of the naic's study. although we believe it to be unlikely, a potential outcome of the naic study is that companies could be prohibited from using captive reinsurers. the expected effect of such prohibition would depend on the specific changes to state regulations that might be adopted as a result of the naic study, including whether current captive reinsurers would be allowed to continue in existence or, if not, the method and timing of their dissolution, as well as the cost and availability of alternative reinsurance vehicles. at this time, given the uncertainty around the ultimate outcome of these matters, we are unable to estimate the potential impact on our risk-based capital ratios and/or liquidity should the use of captive reinsurers be limited or prohibited. no changes in the use or regulation of captive reinsurers have been proposed by the naic, and it is too early to predict the extent of any changes that might be made. accordingly, we expect to continue our strategy of using captive reinsurers to manage risks and enhance capital efficiency while monitoring the naic's study and proposed changes in regulations. see "reinsurance" contained herein in this item 1 for further discussion. the pra has statutory requirements, including capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and minimum solvency margins, to which unum limited must adhere. current solvency standards require an insurance company to hold capital equal to the greater of (i) a formulaic calculation of capital related to liabilities or (ii) a risk-based assessment of capital which is company specific reflecting the insurance company's individual risk profile. solvency ii, a european union directive that will prescribe new capital requirements and risk management standards that are the result of a fundamental review of the capital adequacy standards for the european insurance industry, will replace the current capital requirements for unum limited. our european holding company will also be subject to the solvency ii requirements relevant to insurance holding companies, and its subsidiaries, including unum limited, will be subject to group supervision under solvency ii. solvency ii proposals, which are expected to be finalized during the first quarter of 2015, contain amended requirements on capital adequacy and risk management for insurers, including (i) requirements to demonstrate adequate financial resources, including quantitative requirements, technical provisions, and calculation of solvency ii capital requirements through either an approved full or partial internal model or the european standard formula approach, (ii) requirements to demonstrate an adequate system of governance, including effective risk management underpinned by prospective risk identification and quantification, and (iii) disclosure and regulatory reporting requirements. the effective adoption date is expected to be january 1, 2016. the impact of solvency ii on our u.k. subsidiaries that are applying for an internal model cannot be fully determined at this time, but the adoption of solvency ii will likely result in an increase in supervisory and disclosure requirements and could also result in increased capital requirements. the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) is developing a model framework (comframe) for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (iaigs) that contemplates group-wide supervision across national boundaries, including uniform standards for insurer corporate governance and enterprise risk management, a framework for group capital adequacy assessment that accounts for group-wide risks, and the establishment of ongoing supervisory colleges. we do not qualify as an iaig under the current criteria for designating an iaig. however, we monitor the activities of the iais for the potential that comframe could apply to us in the future. in october 2013, the iais announced that it expects to develop a risk-based global insurance capital standard applicable to iaigs with implementation scheduled to begin in 2019. at this time, we cannot predict what, if any, additional capital requirements, compliance costs, or other requirements this proposed standard might impose on us, if adopted. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources" contained herein in item 7 and note 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. 13 insurance holding company regulation we and our u.s. insurance subsidiaries (excluding captive insurers) are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which they are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), which currently include maine, massachusetts, tennessee, south carolina, new york, and california. these laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including information concerning capital structure, ownership, management, financial condition, and certain intercompany transactions. transactions between an insurer and affiliates in the holding company system generally must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval by the domiciliary insurance regulator. in addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources - cash available from subsidiaries" contained herein in item 7. there are a number of proposals to amend state insurance laws and regulations in ways that could affect us and our insurance subsidiaries. the naic has adopted or amended model laws on holding company regulation that provide for supervision of insurers at the corporate group level. although these changes are only beginning to be adopted by individual state regulators, it can be expected that most will ultimately adopt them in some form. the various proposals to implement group supervision include uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to rbc calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies. a completed activity within the smi includes the adoption by the naic of the risk management and own risk and solvency assessment model act and the own risk and solvency assessment (orsa) guidance manual which require insurers to provide a group-level perspective on the risks of the current and future business plans and the sufficiency of capital to support those risks. we expect to file our orsa summary report with the applicable insurance regulators in 2015. the laws of most states, including the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurance company or its holding company. where these laws apply to us, there can be no effective change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement containing specified information with the appropriate insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval of the proposed change. the usual measure for a presumptive change of control pursuant to these laws is the acquisition of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company, although this presumption is rebuttable. consequently, a person acquiring 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company without the prior approval of the insurance regulators in the state(s) of domicile of the insurance company(ies) sought to be acquired (or whose holding company is sought to be acquired) will be in violation of these laws. such a person may also be subject to one or more of the following actions: (i) injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the applicable insurance regulators; (ii) prohibition of voting of such shares; and (iii) other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulators. further, many states' insurance laws require that prior notification be given to state insurance regulators of a change in control of a non-domiciled insurance company doing business in the state. these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance regulators to disapprove the change in control; however, they do authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist, such as undue market concentration. any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-notification laws. these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. federal laws and regulations enacted in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank) effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the united states. dodd-frank directs various government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years. among other provisions, dodd-frank creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets, including requiring that certain swaps be executed through a centralized exchange or regulated facility and be cleared through a regulated clearinghouse and subjecting major swap participants to capital and margin (i.e., collateral) requirements, which will likely have 14 the effect of increasing the costs of hedging generally and the credit risk posed by some counterparties. we use derivative transactions to help us manage certain risks in our business. new margin requirements for cleared and uncleared transactions are expected to require the posting of higher margin levels for our derivatives activities and also may narrowly restrict the range of eligible collateral, which may require us to hold more of our assets in cash or cash equivalents that generate lower yields than other investments. dodd-frank also established a financial stability oversight council (fsoc) with authority to subject systemically important financial companies (including non-bank financial companies such as us) to supervision and stricter prudential regulation by the board of governors of the federal reserve board, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, stress testing, and credit exposure, and in certain circumstances limitations on acquisitions or combinations, restrictions on product offerings, and/or requirements to sell assets. in april 2012, the fsoc adopted final rules for evaluating whether a non-bank financial company should be designated as systemically important. we have not been designated as a systemically important financial company, and based on the quantitative criteria set forth in the final rules, at this time we believe it is unlikely that we will be subject to such designation. in addition, dodd-frank established a federal insurance office (fio) within the department of the treasury to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry (other than with respect to health insurance, certain long-term care insurance, and crop insurance), including identifying issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or the u.s. financial system and recommending insurers (potentially including us) that should be designated for stricter regulation. in december 2013, the fio released its report on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the united states. the report concludes that modernization and improvement are possible through a combination of steps by states and certain actions by the federal government. the report makes recommendations for enhanced uniformity and efficiency by states in the areas of insolvency and marketplace regulation and for direct federal involvement in certain areas, such as for the fio to engage in supervisory colleges and also to study and report on the manner in which personal information is used for insurance pricing and coverage purposes. we are subject to the laws and regulations generally applicable to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange relating to public reporting and disclosure, accounting and financial reporting, corporate governance, and securities trading. further, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and rules and regulations adopted under this regulation, have increased the requirements for us and other public companies in these and other areas. the usa patriot act of 2001 (patriot act) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. the patriot act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. anti-money laundering laws outside of the united states contain some similar provisions. additionally, other federal laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and regulations issued by the office of foreign asset's controls, as well as the u.k.'s bribery act of 2010, have increased requirements relating to identifying customers, prohibiting transactions with certain organizations or individuals, watching for and reporting suspicious transactions, responding to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, sharing information with other financial institutions, and requiring the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls. we are subject to income tax regulations in a number of jurisdictions wherein we operate. there are tax reform efforts underway in the united states, such as the camp tax reform proposals introduced as legislation in 2014 that would, if enacted as proposed, increase our corporate taxes significantly. these proposals have not been adopted, but we continue to monitor these and other tax-related proposals in the united states and elsewhere to understand the potential impact on our profitability. for further discussion of regulation, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. geographic areas operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our unum uk segment was approximately 7 percent of our consolidated operating revenue for the years 2014 and 2013 and approximately 8 percent for 2012. as of december 31, 2014, total assets and total liabilities for our unum uk segment each equaled approximately 6 percent of consolidated assets and liabilities. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency of our unum uk segment will impact our reported operating results. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange 15 rates. see "reporting segments" contained herein in item 1; "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7; and note 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum uk's operating results. employees at december 31, 2014 , we had approximately 9,500 full-time employees. available information our internet website address is www.unum.com . we make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. executive officers of the registrant our executive officers, all of whom are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by unum group's board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. name age position thomas r. watjen 60 president and chief executive officer and a director timothy g. arnold 52 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life liston bishop iii 68 executive vice president, senior executive counsel breege a. farrell 55 executive vice president, chief investment officer lisa g. iglesias 49 executive vice president, general counsel christopher j. jerome 53 executive vice president, global services john f. mcgarry 57 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, closed block operations richard p. mckenney 46 executive vice president and chief financial officer peter g. o'donnell 48 president and chief executive officer, unum uk michael q. simonds 41 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us mr. watjen became president and chief executive officer in march 2003. he served as vice chairman and chief operating officer from may 2002 until march 2003. he became executive vice president, finance in june 1999 and assumed the additional risk management responsibilities in november 1999. mr. watjen originally joined a unum group predecessor company as executive vice president and chief financial officer in 1994. mr. watjen will retire as president effective april 1, 2015 and as chief executive officer effective upon the conclusion of our annual meeting of shareholders to be held on may 21, 2015. mr. arnold was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life in january 2015, after having served as executive vice president, president, colonial life from july 2014. he previously served as senior vice president, sales and marketing, colonial life from august 2012, as senior vice president, chief operations officer, colonial life from july 2011, and as senior vice president, integrated underwriting, unum us from may 2010. mr. arnold originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1985. mr. bishop was named executive vice president, senior executive counsel in january 2015, after having served as executive vice president and general counsel since october 2008. from august 1979 through september 2008, mr. bishop practiced corporate and securities law as a member of the law firm of miller &amp; martin pllc, except during the period from january 2005 through july 2007 when he was employed as deputy general counsel and corporate secretary of coca-cola enterprises inc. mr. bishop has announced his intention to retire from the company in 2015. ms. farrell was named executive vice president, chief investment officer in august 2013, after having joined the company as senior vice president and chief investment officer in april 2011. before joining the company, she held a number of executive-level investment positions within the allstate corporation, a personal lines insurer, including as senior managing director of 16 allstate investments, llc and certain affiliated companies from january 2010 to april 2011, and as managing director of these companies from august 2004 to january 2010. ms. iglesias was named executive vice president, general counsel upon joining the company in january 2015. she served as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary of wellcare health plans, inc., a managed care company, from february 2012 to december 2014, having first joined wellcare in february 2010 as vice president, securities and assistant general counsel. prior to that, she served as general counsel and corporate secretary for nordstrom, inc., a fashion specialty retailer, from 2007 to 2008, and as general counsel and secretary of spherion corporation, a recruiting and staffing company, from 1999 to 2007. mr. jerome was named executive vice president, global services in july 2013, after having served as senior vice president, global services from january 2012. he previously served as senior vice president, risk operations from july 2010, as senior vice president, underwriting &amp; service operations, unum us from may 2010, and as senior vice president, group underwriting operations from august 2006. mr. jerome originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1983. mr. mcgarry was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, closed block operations in august 2013, after having served as executive vice president, individual disability and long-term care closed block operations from september 2012. he previously served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk from july 2010, and as senior vice president, benefits, individual disability, and national client group business, unum us from january 2010. prior to that, he served in various other capacities within unum us, including as senior vice president, benefits operations and risk management from march 2008 to january 2010, and as senior vice president, benefits operations from january 2006 to march 2008. mr. mcgarry originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1986. mr. mcgarry will succeed mr. mckenney as chief financial officer effective april 1, 2015. mr. mckenney was named executive vice president and chief financial officer in august 2009, having joined the company in july 2009. before joining the company, mr. mckenney served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of sun life financial inc., an international financial services company, from february 2007, having joined that company as executive vice president in september 2006. he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of genworth financial, inc., a global financial security company, from may 2004 until august 2006. mr. mckenney will succeed mr. watjen as president effective april 1, 2015, and as chief executive officer effective may 21, 2015. mr. o'donnell was named president and chief executive officer, unum uk, in september 2012, after having joined the company as unum limited's chief financial officer in 2010. prior to joining unum limited, mr. o'donnell served as director of group finance at prudential plc, an international financial services company, from may 2008 to may 2010. he served as finance director at royal &amp; sunalliance plc, an international financial services company, from may 2005 to may 2008. mr. simonds was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us in july 2013, after having served as senior vice president and chief operating officer, unum us from june 2012. he previously served as senior vice president, growth operations, unum us from july 2010, and as senior vice president and chief marketing officer, unum us from march 2008. mr. simonds originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1994, left the company in 2000 to further his education and to serve as a consultant with mckinsey &amp; company, a global management consulting firm, and rejoined the company in 2003. 17 item 1a. risk factors we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. discussed below are certain factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases. see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1. sustained periods of low interest rates in the long-term investment market may adversely affect our reported net investment income and the discount rates used in reserving for our insurance products and projecting our pension obligations, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. further declines in interest rates and/or the continuance of the current level of low interest rates and yields on fixed income investments may cause the rates of return on our investment portfolio to decrease more than expected, leading to lower net investment income than assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products. an interest, or discount, rate is used in calculating reserves for our insurance products. we set our reserve discount rate assumptions based on our current and expected future investment yield for assets supporting the reserves, considering current and expected future market conditions. if the discount rate assumed in our reserve calculations is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets will not earn enough investment income to support our future claim payments. in that case, the reserves may eventually be insufficient, resulting in the need to increase our reserves and/or increase our capital contributions to our insurance subsidiaries, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. our net periodic benefit costs and the value of our benefit obligations for our pension plans are determined based on a set of economic and demographic assumptions that represent our best estimate of future expected experience. major assumptions used in accounting for these plans include the expected discount (interest) rate and the long-term rate of return on plan assets. we set the discount rate assumption at the measurement date for each of our plans to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality fixed income debt instruments matched against the timing and amounts of projected future benefits. a lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases our costs. our expectations for the future investment returns on plan assets are based on a combination of historical market performance, current market conditions, and future capital market assumptions obtained from external consultants and economists. the actual rate of return on plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period. increases or decreases in long-term interest rates as well as equity market volatility will impact the fair value of our plan assets and may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, "interest rate risk" contained herein in item 7a, and note 9 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. actual experience may differ from our reserve assumptions which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. historical results may not be indicative of future performance due to, among other things, changes in our mix of business, re-pricing of certain lines of business, or any number of economic cyclical effects on our business. reserves, whether calculated under gaap or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. actual experience may differ from our reserve assumptions. there can be no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. life expectancies may continue to increase, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives disability or long-term care benefits and could result in a change in mortality assumptions and an increase in reserves for these and other long-tailed products. adjustments to reserve amounts may also be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors); premium rate increases; persistency; policy benefit offsets, including those for social security and other government-based welfare benefits; and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 18 see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and notes 1 and 6 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. unfavorable economic conditions may result in lower sales, lower premium growth and persistency, higher claims incidence, and longer claims duration, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, both in the united states, the united kingdom, and to a lesser extent, the broader global financial markets. economic conditions began to improve during 2014, and we expect that there will be gradual continued improvement in 2015, but negative developments in the capital markets and/or the general economy could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in particular, factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses. given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, new product sales may be adversely affected. our premium growth may also be negatively impacted by lower premium growth from existing customers due to lower salary growth and lower growth in the number of employees covered under an existing policy. in addition, during such periods we may experience higher claims incidence, longer claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation, which may affect the cost or demand for our products, increase capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and adversely affect our profitability, liquidity, or growth. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the united states and abroad. the primary purpose of insurance regulation is to protect policyholders, not stockholders. to that end, applicable laws establish regulatory authorities, including state insurance departments in the united states and the pra in the united kingdom, with broad administrative powers over many aspects of the insurance business. for example, our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, we and our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. these laws and regulations can be complex and subject to differing interpretations and are regularly re-examined. existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. for example, they may restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us, restrict transactions between subsidiaries and/or between us and our subsidiaries, and may require contributions of capital by us to our insurance subsidiaries even if we are otherwise in compliance with stated requirements. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws or regulations could result in restrictions on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which they operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. it is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled and operate. we cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. the naic or state regulators may adopt revisions to the rbc formula, the pra may revise its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, the iais may adopt capital requirements to which we could be subject, or rating agencies may incorporate higher capital thresholds into their quantitative analyses, thus requiring additional capital contributions by us to our insurance subsidiaries. increased financial services regulation, which could include activities undertaken by the naic and the european commission's solvency ii directive, may impose greater quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and disclosure requirements and may impact the business strategies, capital requirements, and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. the united kingdom's financial ombudsman service, which was established to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses providing financial services, and the fca, which has rule-making, investigative, and enforcement powers to protect consumers, may hamper our ability to do business, which could have a material adverse effect on our u.k. operations. new programs, including healthcare reform and financial services sector reform, may compete with or diminish the need or demand for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace. the united 19 states social security disability insurance program may not be sustainable, which may adversely affect the level of our disability claim payments and reserves. we use affiliated captive reinsurers for the limited purpose of reinsuring risks attributable to specified policies issued or reinsured by our insurance subsidiaries in order to effectively manage risks in connection with certain blocks of our business as well as to enhance our capital efficiency. if we were required to discontinue use of the captive reinsurers or to alter the structure of the captive reinsurance arrangements, our ability to maintain current rbc ratios and/or our capital deployment activities could be adversely affected. no changes in the use or regulation of captive reinsurers have been proposed by the naic, and it is too early to predict the potential impact of any changes that might be made. legislative changes related to pension funding requirements could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and our profitability. changes in tax laws such as the camp tax reform proposals which were introduced as legislation in 2014 could increase our corporate taxes significantly. furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could be impacted by our future earnings levels. changes in tax laws could also make some of our products less attractive to consumers. we cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be, or whether, if at all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. dodd-frank directs existing and recently created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years. as a result of the regulations implemented thus far, regulations directed at some derivative activities and the implementation of central clearing rules have increased the cost of some hedging activities primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements. we cannot predict the requirements of the remaining regulations that will ultimately be adopted or how or whether such regulations will affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition, require us to raise additional capital, or result in a downgrade of our credit ratings. most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by the employee retirement income security act (erisa). changes to erisa enacted by congress or through judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability. the insurance departments in jurisdictions wherein our insurance subsidiaries conduct business may limit our ability to obtain rate increases under guaranteed renewable contracts or could require changes in rates and/or benefits to meet minimum loss ratio requirements which could negatively impact the profitability of our products. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. these actions could result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in our claims handling or other business practices, changes in procedures for the identification and payment to the states of benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, increases to reserving requirements, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, assessments by tax authorities or other governing agencies, fines, and other administrative action, which could injure our reputation, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, and/or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and notes 7 and 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. 20 in addition to interest rate risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. default risk our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer's industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, unforeseen accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer's marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations. our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk. events or developments, such as economic conditions that impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio. events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector. a default results in the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment loss on the investment. a default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us. the probability of credit downgrades and defaults increases when the fixed income markets experience periods of volatility and illiquidity. credit spread risk our exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable u.s. treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads may unfavorably impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of the investment portfolio and may adversely impact liquidity. credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities. valuation risk we report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at fair value. valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, particularly during periods of market disruption, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we evaluate our investment portfolio for impairments. there can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken. additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. any event reducing the value of our securities other than on a temporary basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. market timing and liquidity risk while we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, there may at times be a lack of appropriate investments in the market which can be acquired. in addition, we may in certain circumstances need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. there may also be a limited market for certain of our investments, such as our private placement fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, and policy loans, which makes them more illiquid. in periods of market volatility or disruption, other of our securities may also experience reduced liquidity. if events occur wherein we need to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment or need to quickly sell securities which are illiquid, market prices may be lower than what we might realize under normal circumstances, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of our investments and derivatives. 21 the failure of cyber or other information security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems, could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we rely heavily on the effective operation of our information technology systems to administer almost every aspect of our business. we also store confidential policyholder and employee information and other proprietary information on our systems as a part of our normal business operations. these systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. we maintain security systems and implement measures to protect our information technology systems and data, but they may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. we also have contractual and governance safeguards in place with our third-party outsourcing partners and cloud computing providers to manage security as part of the service they deliver to us, but these measures may not prevent attackers from exploiting weaknesses in their networks to access our data. threats to our systems or those of third-party providers may originate externally, such as from cyber criminals or other hackers, or internally from within our company, such as from employee error or malfeasance. in some cases we may be unaware of emerging threats and the magnitude of their effects, or we may not become aware of a cyber incident for some time after it occurs, which could increase our exposure. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, a cyber attack, cyber security breach or other information technology systems failure, a terrorist attack, or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those problems affect our information technology systems and destroy valuable data. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our employees were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. the failure of our information technology and/or disaster recovery systems for any reason could cause significant interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers' operations and result in the loss, theft, or failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions, legal claims, and increased expenses, lead to a loss of customers and revenues, and otherwise adversely impact our profitability and our business. while we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides coverage for network security, privacy liability, technology errors and omissions, media liability, first party network business interruption, electronic restoration, and cyber extortion (including sub-limits for credit monitoring, notification costs, regulatory expense, and investigative expense), our insurance may not provide adequate loss coverage in all circumstances. competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability. all of our businesses are highly competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, quality of customer service and claims management, integrated product choices, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. we compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability. the level and intensity of competition may grow due to existing competitors becoming more aggressive, new competitors entering the market, including those who enter the market as a result of healthcare reform, and an increase in merger and acquisition activity which may result in larger competitors with greater financial resources. there are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies and new competitors in the future, which may adversely affect our market share or profitability. see "competition" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. a decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may adversely affect our competitive position, our ability to hedge our risks, and our cost of capital or ability to raise capital, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. a downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect our relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. a downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to unum group can be expected to adversely affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise additional capital. if we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our derivatives financial instrument contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts. such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks. 22 see "ratings" contained herein in item 1 and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. there are many events which may harm our reputation, including, but not limited to, those discussed in this item 1a regarding regulatory investigations, legal proceedings, and cyber or other information security incidents. in addition, as an insurance company, we are paid to accept certain risks. those who conduct our business, including executive officers and members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, and to some extent, independent agents and brokers, do so in part by making decisions that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline, maintaining effective claim management and customer service performance, managing our investment portfolio and derivatives trading activities, delivering effective technology solutions, complying with established sales practices, executing our capital management strategy, exiting a line of business and/or pursuing strategic growth initiatives, and other decisions. although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks or unintentionally failing to comply with internal policies and practices such that errors occur, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures will be effective. if our employees and business associates take excessive risks and/or fail to comply with internal policies and practices, the impact of those events may damage our market position and reputation. depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital and/or increase our cost of capital. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and note 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on regulatory matters and legal proceedings. we provide a broad array of disability, long-term care, group life, and voluntary insurance products that are affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. disability insurance disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence and recoveries for disability insurance. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses. claim durations may be extended by medical improvements which could extend life expectancies. the relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. the pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ among product classes. our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business. guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market. long-term care insurance long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products. this creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval by our states of 23 domicile and may also be subject to approval by jurisdictions in which our policyholders reside. the rate approval process can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all, and the rate increases ultimately approved may be favorable or unfavorable relative to assumptions used to establish our reserves. we monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends. changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves. mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives long-term care benefits and may subject more policyholders to advanced aging and an associated increase in claims incidence. medical advances may continue to have an impact on claim incidence and duration, both favorable and unfavorable. due to the long duration of the product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. sustained periods of low or declining interest rates could result in increases in reserves and adversely affect our results of operations. group life insurance group life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, and pandemic health events, which may also affect the cost of and availability of reinsurance coverage. there are a series of lawsuits challenging the use of retained asset accounts in group life plans that are governed by erisa. if these challenges are upheld by the courts, our ability to use such accounts for the beneficiaries of these plans may be adversely affected. voluntary products voluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics. our voluntary life insurance products generally include interest-sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate. it is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate. the non-life contracts are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1 and "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. our risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. we have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, operations, and reputational risks. however, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for monitoring and managing risk may not fully predict or mitigate future exposures. see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further information about our risk management program. litigation and contingencies are common in our businesses and may result in financial losses and/or harm to our reputation. we are, and in the future may be, defendants in a number of litigation matters, and the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. an estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings. as part of our normal operations in managing claims, we are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for 24 our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. we expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and note 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings. reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. as part of our overall risk management and capital management strategies, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and may impact the level of capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business, result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue, and increase our capital requirements. the collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the effectiveness of our hedging programs may be affected by changes in the economic environment, changes in interest rates, capital market volatility, non-performance by our counterparties, changes in the level of required collateral, or regulation, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we use derivative financial instruments to help us manage certain risks related to our business operations, primarily interest rate risk, risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities, and foreign currency risk. factors associated with derivative financial instruments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. ineffectiveness of our hedges due to changes in expected future events, such as the risk created by uncertainty in the economic environment or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance by our counterparties, many of which are financial institutions. non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind hedges, and we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged. under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral, which may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral. changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute hedging strategies due to the increased economic cost of derivatives, primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements. changes in accounting standards may materially affect our financial statements. our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, in both the united states and the united kingdom, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the u.s. financial accounting standards board (fasb), the u.k. accounting standards board (asb), and the naic. accounting standards issued by the fasb and asb may be influenced by the international accounting standards board (iasb). these authoritative bodies have several ongoing projects regarding accounting standards that will likely be issued in the near future. future accounting standards we adopt will change current accounting and disclosure requirements applicable to our financial statements. such changes may have a material effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition. 25 currency translation could materially impact our reported operating results. the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results. however, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert pounds into dollars. as a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. our ability to finance our ongoing operations may not always be possible solely from internal sources of capital and liquidity. if we need to seek external capital, there is the risk that adverse market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital or our cost of capital. a change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations. deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in this item 1a may impose higher capital or reserve requirements on our insurance subsidiaries, increase collateral requirements for certain of our derivatives transactions, and/or implement other requirements which could unfavorably affect our liquidity. without sufficient liquidity, our ability to maintain and grow our operations would be limited. if our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us. if our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus is considered important not only by us but by insurance regulatory authorities in the u.s., the pra in the u.k., and the rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary's ability to distribute funds to our holding companies. obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be challenging in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty. the markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. the availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock in unum group. we rely on our credit facility as a potential source of liquidity. our right to borrow funds under this facility is subject to financial covenants, negative covenants, and events of default. our ability to borrow under this facility is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facility or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments would restrict our ability to access this facility when needed, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "liquidity and capital resources" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 8 and 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. as a holding company, unum group depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it so that it can meet its obligations and pay dividends. unum group is a holding company for insurance and other subsidiaries and has no significant operations of its own. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance laws and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds or other assets to affiliates, including to unum group. the level of earnings and capital in our subsidiaries, as well as business conditions and rating agency considerations, could impact our insurance and other subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to unum group, which could impair our ability to pay dividends to unum group's common stockholders, meet our debt and other payment obligations, and/or repurchase shares of unum group's common stock. 26 see "regulation" contained herein in item 1,"liquidity and capital resources" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and note 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. we have assets which may not be fully recoverable or realizable, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. if our business does not perform well or as initially anticipated in our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment loss on intangible assets or long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset. we have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (dac), value of business acquired (voba), and goodwill. dac and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for dac and voba is performed on an annual basis. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either dac and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary, we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate and information technology software, also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we may be unable to recover the carrying amount. we assess our deferred tax assets to determine if they are realizable. factors in our determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate future taxable income. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established with a corresponding charge to net income. charges such as accelerated amortization, impairment losses, or the establishment of valuation allowances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 7, and 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of certain assets in our investment portfolio, disrupt our operations, or result in higher claim costs. the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military actions, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in the global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, business disruption, and reduced economic activity. some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad. in addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. beyond obtaining insurance coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events away from us. we purchase reinsurance protection against catastrophic disaster events, including terrorism. the continued threat of terrorism could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. see "reinsurance" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. 27 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 87 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to various market risk exposures, including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding our risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating our overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a, "investments" contained herein in item 7, and notes 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate changes results from our holdings of financial instruments such as fixed rate investments, derivatives, and interest-sensitive liabilities. fixed rate investments include fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, and short-term investments. fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, public utility bonds, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and redeemable preferred stock, all of which are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations. certain of our financial instruments, fixed maturity securities and derivatives, are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of these financial instruments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. a rise in interest rates may decrease the net unrealized gain related to these financial instruments, but may improve our ability to earn higher rates of return on new purchases of fixed maturity securities. conversely, a decline in interest rates may increase the net unrealized gain, but new securities may be purchased at lower rates of return. although changes in fair value of fixed maturity securities and derivatives due to changes in interest rates may impact amounts reported in our consolidated balance sheets, these changes will not cause an economic gain or loss unless we sell investments, terminate derivative positions, determine that an investment is other than temporarily impaired, or determine that a derivative instrument is no longer an effective hedge. other fixed rate investments, such as mortgage loans and policy loans, are carried at amortized cost and unpaid balances, respectively, rather than fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. these investments may have fair values substantially higher or lower than the carrying values reflected in our balance sheets. a change in interest rates could impact our financial position if we sold our mortgage loan investments at times of low market value. a change in interest rates would not impact our financial position at repayment of policy loans, as ultimately the cash surrender values or death benefits would be reduced for the carrying value of any outstanding policy loans. carrying amounts for short-term investments approximate fair value, and we believe we have minimal interest rate risk exposure from these investments. we believe that the risk of being forced to liquidate investments or terminate derivative positions is minimal, primarily due to the level of capital at our insurance subsidiaries, the level of cash and marketable securities at our holding companies, and our investment strategy which we believe provides for adequate cash flows to meet the funding requirements of our business. we may in certain circumstances, however, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. although our policy benefits are primarily in the form of claim payments and we therefore have minimal exposure to the policy withdrawal risk associated with deposit products such as individual life policies or annuities, the fair values of liabilities under all insurance contracts are taken into consideration in our overall management of interest rate risk, which minimizes exposure to changing interest rates through the matching of investment cash flows with amounts due under insurance contracts. changes in interest rates and individuals' behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. we actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to limit interest rate risk. due to the long duration of our long-term care product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. we model and test asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios enables us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to limit the risk of disadvantageous outcomes. we use this analysis in determining hedging strategies and utilizing derivative financial instruments. we use current and forward interest rate swaps, options on forward interest rate swaps, and forward treasury locks to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. debt is not carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. if we modify or replace existing debt instruments at current market rates, we may incur a gain or loss on the transaction. we believe our debt-related risk to changes in interest rates is relatively minimal. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. 87 we measure our financial instruments' market risk related to changes in interest rates using a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates potential changes in fair values as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 based on a hypothetical immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels. the selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. the hypothetical potential changes in fair value of our financial instruments at december 31, 2014 and 2013 are shown as follows: december 31, 2014 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 45,064.9 $ 41,394.8 $ (3,670.1 ) mortgage loans 2,024.2 1,931.3 (92.9 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 339.2 313.2 (26.0 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and deferred acquisition costs (2) $ (5,836.1 ) $ (3,071.9 ) $ 2,764.2 short-term debt (158.9 ) (157.8 ) 1.1 long-term debt (2,912.6 ) (2,745.6 ) 167.0 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,687.4 $ (64.9 ) $ (86.8 ) $ (21.9 ) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (49.9 ) (55.6 ) (5.7 ) december 31, 2013 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 42,344.4 $ 39,009.2 $ (3,335.2 ) mortgage loans 1,980.2 1,889.9 (90.3 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 295.9 278.0 (17.9 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and deferred acquisition costs (2) $ (3,886.3 ) $ (1,568.7 ) $ 2,317.6 long-term debt (2,824.4 ) (2,660.5 ) 163.9 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,477.4 $ (124.8 ) $ (139.7 ) $ (14.9 ) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (53.2 ) (62.1 ) (8.9 ) (1) these financial instruments are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates may affect the fair value at which the item is reported in our consolidated balance sheets. the corresponding offsetting change is reported in other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes, except for changes in the fair value of derivatives accounted for as fair value hedges or derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, the offset of which is reported as a component of net realized investment gain or loss. (2) the adjustment to reserves and deferred acquisition costs for unrealized investment gains and losses reflects the adjustments to policyholder liabilities and deferred acquisition costs that would be necessary if the unrealized investment gains and losses related to the fixed maturity securities and derivatives had been realized. changes in this adjustment are also reported as a component of other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes. 88 the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities was estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values shown in the chart above for all other items were determined using discounted cash flow analyses. because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. sustained periods of low interest rates may result in lower than expected profitability. assuming interest rates and credit spreads remained constant throughout 2015 at the january 2015 market levels, our net investment income would decrease by approximately $1 million in 2015 and $7 million in 2016 relative to our current expectations. this interest rate scenario does not give consideration to the effect of other factors which could impact these results, such as changes in the bond market and changes in hedging strategies and positions, nor does it consider the potential change to our discount rate reserve assumptions and any mitigating factors such as pricing adjustments. in addition, a continued low or declining interest rate environment may also result in an increase in the net periodic benefit costs for our pension plans, but we do not believe it would materially affect net income in 2015 or 2016. foreign currency risk the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. we are exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in the british pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rates primarily as they relate to the translation of the financial results of our u.k. operations. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results. we do not hedge against the possible impact of this risk. because we do not actually convert pounds into dollars except for a limited number of transactions, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue and not a reflection of operations or profitability in our u.k. operations. assuming the pound to dollar exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2014 and 2013 levels, stockholders' equity as reported in u.s. dollars would have been lower by approximately $100 million at each of those year end periods. assuming the pound to dollar average exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the actual average exchange rates for 2014 and 2013 , before-tax operating income, as reported in u.s. dollars, would have decreased approximately $15 million in each of those two years. dividends paid by unum limited are generally held at our u.k. finance subsidiary or our u.k. holding company. if these funds are repatriated to our u.s. holding company, we would at that time be subject to foreign currency risk as the value of the dividend, when converted into u.s. dollars, would be dependent upon the foreign exchange rate at the time of conversion. we are also exposed to foreign currency risk related to certain foreign investment securities denominated in local currencies and u.s. dollar-denominated debt issued by one of our u.k. subsidiaries. we use current and forward currency swaps to hedge or minimize the foreign exchange risk associated with these instruments. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "consolidated operating results" and "unum uk segment" contained herein in item 7 for further information concerning foreign currency translation. risk management effectively taking and managing risks is essential to the success of our company. to facilitate this effort, we have a formal enterprise risk management (erm) program, with a framework comprising the following key components: risk culture and governance risk appetite policy risk identification and prioritization risk and capital modeling risk management activities risk reporting 89 our erm framework is the ongoing system of people, processes, and tools across our company under which we intend to function consistently and collectively to identify and assess risks and opportunities, to manage all material risks within our risk appetite, and to contribute to strategic decision making. with the goal of maximizing shareholder value, the primary objectives of our erm framework are to support unum group in meeting its operational and financial objectives, maintaining liquidity, optimizing capital, and protecting franchise value. risk culture and governance we employ a decentralized risk management model under which risk-based decisions are made daily on a local level. to achieve long-term success, we believe risk management must be the responsibility of all employees. the individual and collective decisions of our employees play a key role in successfully managing our overall risk profile. we strive for a culture of accountability, risk management, and strict compliance, and we believe these values allow our employees to feel comfortable identifying issues as well as taking ownership for addressing potential problems. our risk culture is reinforced by our system of risk governance. we employ a multi-layered risk control system. our three lines of defense model is depicted below. 1st line: own and manage 2nd line: oversee 3rd line: independent assurance business processes and procedures employed throughout the company through which management assumes and monitors significant risks management committees chartered with oversight of activities within the 1st and 2nd lines of defense, mitigation of substantial exposures, and management of emerging risks independent review of erm framework and risk mitigation business units are primarily responsible for managing their principal risks. our risk committees and other management committees serve risk and control functions responsible for providing risk oversight, or the second line of risk control. the internal audit team provides a second level of independent review, or our third line of risk control. the risk and finance committee of unum group's board of directors (the board) oversees the entire erm governance process, effectively providing independent review for our third line of risk control. the board has an active role, as a whole and through its committees, in overseeing management of our risks. the board is responsible for managing strategic risk and regularly reviews information regarding our capital, liquidity, and operations, as well as the risks associated with each. the risk and finance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of our risk management process, including financial risk, operational risk, and any other risk not specifically assigned to another board committee. it also is responsible for oversight of risks associated with investments, capital and financing plans and activities, and related financial matters, including matters pertaining to our closed block segment. the audit committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to financial reporting risk and certain operational risks. the human capital committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to our compensation plans and programs. the regulatory compliance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks related to regulatory, compliance, policy, and legal matters, both current and emerging, and whether of a local, state, federal, or international nature. while each committee is responsible for evaluating certain risks and overseeing the management of such risks, the entire board is regularly informed through committee reports about such risks in addition to the risk information it receives directly. the executive risk management committee is responsible for overseeing our enterprise-wide risk management program. the chief risk officer, who is a member of the executive risk management committee, has primary responsibility for our erm program and is supported by corporate risk committees and by the risk committees of our primary operating segments. operating segment risk committees for unum us, unum uk, colonial life, and closed block are responsible for oversight of risks specific to their businesses. these committees are responsible for identifying, measuring, reporting, and managing insurance and operational risks within their respective areas, consistent with enterprise risk management guidance. corporate risk committees and other management committees oversee the operational, global technology services, investment, and capital management risks on a corporate level. 90 risk appetite policy our risk appetite policy describes the types of risks we are willing to take, as well as the amount of enterprise risk exposure we deem acceptable in pursuit of our goals, with an objective of clearly defining boundaries for our risk-taking activities. the starting point of our philosophy and approach to our erm strategy is our corporate strategy. in contrast to many multi-line peer companies, we do not offer retirement savings, traditional medical benefits, or property and casualty insurance. our corporate strategy is focused on providing group, individual, and voluntary benefits, either as stand-alone products or combined with other coverages, that create comprehensive benefits solutions for employers. we have market leadership positions in the product lines we offer and believe this combination of focused expertise and experience is a competitive advantage and forms the foundation of our approach to risk management. we believe our sound and consistent business practices, strong internal compliance program, and comprehensive risk management strategy enable us to operate efficiently and to identify and address potential areas of risk in our business. we take and manage risks to achieve our business and strategic objectives, and our risk appetite statement sets boundaries for risk-taking activities that link earnings, capital, and operational processes, as well as summarizes our most material risk limits and controls. we monitor our risk profile against our established risk tolerance and limits. risks falling outside our risk tolerance and limits are reported to the applicable governance group, where decisions are made pertaining to acceptance of the risk or implementation of remediation plans or corrective actions as deemed appropriate by that governance group. risk identification and prioritization risk identification and prioritization is an ongoing process, whereby we identify and assess our risk positions and exposures, including notable risk events. additionally, we identify emerging risks and analyze how material future risks might affect us. knowing the potential risks we face allows us to monitor and manage their potential effects including adjusting our strategies as appropriate and holding capital levels which provide financial flexibility. risk and other management committees have primary responsibility for identifying and prioritizing risks within their respective areas. we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. for additional information on certain risks that may adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1 and "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. risk and capital modeling we assess material risks, including how they affect us and how individual risks interrelate, to provide valuable information to management in order that they may effectively manage our risks. we use qualitative and quantitative approaches to assess existing and emerging risks and to develop mitigating strategies to limit our exposure to both. we utilize stress testing and scenario analysis for risk management and to shape our business, financial, and strategic planning activities. both are key components of our risk appetite policy and play an important role in monitoring, assessing, managing, and mitigating our primary risk exposures. in particular, stress testing of our capital and liquidity management strategies enables us to identify areas of high exposure, assess mitigating actions, develop contingency plans, and guide decisions around our target capital and liquidity levels. for example, we periodically perform stress tests on certain categories of assets or liabilities to support development of capital and liquidity risk contingency plans. these tests help ensure that we have a buffer to support our operations in uncertain times and financial flexibility to respond to market opportunities. stress testing is also central to reserve adequacy testing, cash flow testing, and asset and liability management. in addition, we aim to constantly improve our capital modeling techniques and methodologies that are used to determine a level of capital that is commensurate with our risk profile and to ensure compliance with evolving regulatory and rating agency requirements. our capital modeling reflects appropriate aggregation of risks and diversification benefits resulting from our mix of products and business units. our internal capital modeling and allocation aids us in making significant business decisions including strategic planning, capital management, risk limit determination, reinsurance purchases, hedging activities, asset allocation, pricing, and corporate development. 91 risk management activities we accept and manage strategic, credit, and insurance risks in accordance with our corporate strategy, investment policy, and annual business plans. the following fundamental principles are embedded in our risk management efforts across our company. we believe in the benefits of specialization and a focused business strategy. we seek profitable risk-taking in areas where we have established risk management skills and capabilities. we seek to manage our exposure to insurance risk through a combination of prudent underwriting with effective risk selection, maintaining pricing discipline, sound reserving practices, and claims operational effectiveness. detailed underwriting guidelines and claim policies are tools used to manage our insurance risk exposure. we also monitor exposures against internally prescribed limits, and we diversify to reduce potential concentration risk and volatility. we maintain a detailed set of investment policies and guidelines, including fundamental credit analysis, that are used to manage our credit risk exposure and diversify our risks across asset classes and issuers. finally, we foster a risk culture that embeds our corporate values and our code of conduct in our daily operations and preserves our reputation with customers and other key stakeholders. we monitor a composite set of operational risk metrics that measure operating effectiveness from the customer perspective. risk reporting regular internal and external risk reporting is an integral part of our erm framework. internally, erm reports are a standard part of our quarterly senior management and board meetings. the reports summarize our existing and emerging risk exposures, as well as report against the tolerances and limits defined by our risk appetite policy. externally, we are subject to a number of regulatory and rating agency risk examinations, and risk reports are often included. during 2015, we must comply with the orsa requirements, which are intended to become a regular part of reviews of insurers' erm programs. we believe the orsa will provide strong evidence of the strengths of our erm framework, measurement approaches, key assumptions utilized in assessing our risks, and prospective solvency assessments under both normal and stressed conditions. we have implemented, and will continue to implement, actions to prepare for compliance with this standard. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 for additional information regarding the orsa. 92risk factors 19 competition there is significant competition among insurance companies for the types of products we sell. we are operating in a dynamic competitive environment of both traditional and non-traditional competitors, with changes in product offerings, enrollment approaches, and technology solutions. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, quality of customer service and claims management, integrated product choices, financial strength ratings, and claims-paying ratings. in the individual and group disability markets, we compete in the united states with a number of major companies and regionally with other companies offering specialty products. our principal competitors for our other products, including group life and the product offerings sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction, include the largest insurance companies in the united states. some of these companies have more competitive pricing or have higher claims-paying ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. in the united kingdom, we compete for the individual and group products we sell with a mix of large internationally recognized providers and strong local carriers. we have observed some of these providers aggressively trying to maintain or grow market share in a difficult economic environment, characterized by very low interest rates and expense pressures on employers and individuals. we believe the need for the types of products we offer is significant. in both the united states and the united kingdom, individuals and families often live paycheck to paycheck with a considerable chance of being out of work. pressure is also mounting on governments as to the sustainability of public assistance. based on current penetration levels, we believe there is substantial upside growth potential. 12 all areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of the group products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market. there is a risk that purchasers of employee benefits products may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us. the effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. we must attract and retain independent agents and brokers to actively market our products. strong competition exists among insurers for agents and brokers. we compete with other insurers for sales agents and brokers primarily on the basis of our product offerings, financial strength, support services, and compensation. sales of our products could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and brokers. for further discussion, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. regulation we and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive and comprehensive supervision and regulation both in the united states and in the united kingdom. the laws and regulations with which we must comply are complex and subject to change. new or existing laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. as a result of the financial market and economic challenges in recent years, regulation and the cost of compliance with regulation has continued to increase. insurance regulation and oversight our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and oversight by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they do business and by the u.s. department of labor (dol) on a national basis, primarily for the protection of policyholders. state insurance departments in the u.s. generally have broad powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business, including the power to: license and examine insurance companies; regulate and supervise sales practices and market conduct; license agents and brokers; approve policy forms; approve premium rates and subsequent increases thereon for certain insurance products; establish reserve requirements and solvency standards; place limitations on shareholder dividends; prescribe the form and content of required financial statements and reports; regulate the types and amounts of permitted investments; and regulate reinsurance transactions. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are examined periodically by their states of domicile and by other states in which they are licensed to conduct business. the domestic examinations have traditionally emphasized financial matters from the perspective of protection of policyholders, but they can and have covered other subjects that an examining state may be interested in reviewing, such as market conduct issues. examinations in other states more typically focus on market conduct, such as a review of sales practices, including the content and use of advertising materials and the licensing and appointing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, and customer service practices, and identification and handling of unclaimed property to determine compliance with state laws. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessments by state insurance guaranty associations to cover the proportional cost of insolvent or failed insurers. the dol enforces a comprehensive federal statute which regulates claims paying fiduciary responsibilities and reporting and disclosure requirements for most employee benefit plans. our u.k. insurance subsidiary, unum limited, is subject to dual regulation by the prudential regulation authority (pra) and the financial conduct authority (fca). the pra oversees the financial health and stability of financial services firms and is responsible for the prudential regulation and day-to-day supervision of insurance companies. the fca seeks to protect consumers and oversees financial services products and practices, including those governing insurance companies in the u.k. capital requirements risk based capital (rbc) standards for u.s. life insurance companies are prescribed by the national association of insurance commissioners (naic). the domiciliary states of our u.s. insurance subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the rbc model formula of the naic, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers. the basis of the system is a risk-based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer's business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. the life and health rbc formula is designed to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks. the formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. the formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers generally. 13 the naic continues with its initiative regarding assessment of the state-based solvency regulation framework to identify opportunities to respond to national and international insurance regulatory and solvency developments. the topics of its assessment include capital requirements, governance and risk management, statutory accounting and financial reporting, and reinsurance. this ongoing assessment will likely result in significant changes to u.s. insurance regulation and solvency standards, including those for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries. this initiative resulted in the adoption of the naic risk management and own risk and solvency assessment (orsa) model act which, following enactment at the state level, requires insurers to provide, at least annually, a group-level perspective on the risks of the current and future business plans and the sufficiency of capital to support those risks. of the states where our traditional u.s. insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, maine, new york, and tennessee have enacted orsa requirements, and we filed our initial orsa summary report with the applicable insurance regulators in 2015. the naic has adopted a valuation manual containing a principles-based approach to life insurance company reserves. although the naic targets a january 2017 effective date to begin a three-year implementation period that would apply only for new business, the principles-based approach will not become effective unless it is enacted into law by a minimum number of state legislatures. the timing and the effect of these changes are uncertain at this time. the naic has established a subgroup to study the insurance industry's use of captive reinsurers and special purpose vehicles to transfer insurance risk and is considering ways to promote uniformity in both the approval and supervision of such reinsurers. the naic continues to study this issue and most recently adopted a proposal to subject certain captive reinsurers and special purpose vehicles to the same capital requirements as traditional insurers. as the naic continues to examine the issue, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of their work. although we believe it to be unlikely, a potential outcome of the naic study is that companies could be prohibited from using captive reinsurers. no changes in the use or regulation of captive reinsurers have been proposed by the naic, and it is too early to predict the extent of any changes that might be made. accordingly, we expect to continue our strategy of using captive reinsurers to manage risks and enhance capital efficiency while monitoring the naic's study and proposed changes in regulations. see "reinsurance" contained herein in this item 1 for further discussion. the pra has statutory requirements, including capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and minimum solvency margins, to which unum limited must adhere. current solvency standards require an insurance company to hold capital equal to the greater of (i) a formulaic calculation of capital related to liabilities or (ii) a risk-based assessment of capital which is company specific reflecting the insurance company's individual risk profile. as of january 1, 2016, solvency ii, a european union directive that prescribes new capital requirements and risk management standards that are the result of a fundamental review of the capital adequacy standards for the european insurance industry, replaced the previous capital requirements for unum limited. our european holding company is also subject to the solvency ii requirements relevant to insurance holding companies, while its subsidiaries (the unum european economic area (eea) group), which includes unum limited, are subject to group supervision under solvency ii. solvency ii results in amended requirements on capital adequacy and risk management for insurers, including (i) requirements to demonstrate adequate financial resources, including quantitative requirements, technical provisions, and calculation of solvency ii capital requirements through either an approved full or partial internal model or the european standard formula approach, (ii) requirements to demonstrate an adequate system of governance, including effective risk management underpinned by prospective risk identification and quantification, and (iii) disclosure and regulatory reporting requirements. the unum eea group received approval from the pra to use its own internal model for calculating regulatory capital and also received approval for certain associated regulatory permissions including transitional relief as the solvency ii capital regime is implemented. as a result, there is no material change to capital requirements or to solvency ratios for the unum eea group. unum eea group will, however, be subject to increased disclosure requirements in its reporting to the pra beginning in 2016. the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) is developing a common framework (comframe) for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (iaigs) that contemplates group-wide supervision across national boundaries, including uniform standards for insurer corporate governance and enterprise risk management, a framework for group capital adequacy assessment that accounts for group-wide risks, and the establishment of ongoing supervisory colleges. we do not qualify as an iaig under the current criteria for designating an iaig. however, we monitor the activities of the iais for the potential that comframe could apply to us in the future. the iais has announced that it expects to develop a risk-based global insurance capital standard applicable to iaigs with implementation scheduled to begin in 2019. at this time, we cannot predict what, if any, additional capital requirements, compliance costs, or other requirements this proposed standard might impose on us, if adopted. 14 see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources" contained herein in item 7 and note 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. insurance holding company regulation we and our u.s. insurance subsidiaries (excluding captive reinsurers) are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which currently include maine, massachusetts, tennessee, south carolina, and new york. these laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including information concerning capital structure, ownership, management, financial condition, and certain intercompany transactions. transactions between an insurer and affiliates in the holding company system generally must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval by the domiciliary insurance regulator. in addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources - cash available from subsidiaries" contained herein in item 7. there are a number of proposals to amend state insurance laws and regulations in ways that could affect us and our insurance subsidiaries. the naic has adopted or amended model laws on holding company regulation that provide for supervision of insurers at the corporate group level. the various proposals to implement group supervision include uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to rbc calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies, including a requirement that the ultimate controlling person of a u.s. insurer submit to the lead state insurance regulator an annual enterprise risk report, which identifies activities, circumstances, or events involving one or more affiliates of an insurer that, if not remedied properly, are likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole. the naic has adopted the corporate governance annual disclosure model act and the corporate governance annual disclosure model regulation, which would require u.s. insurers to disclose detailed information regarding their governance practices. the model act and regulation must be adopted by individual state legislatures and insurance regulators in order to be effective in a particular state. at this time, we cannot predict what, if any, additional compliance costs or other requirements the model act and regulation might impose on us, if adopted. the laws of most states, including the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurance company or its holding company. where these laws apply to us, there can be no effective change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement containing specified information with the appropriate insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval of the proposed change. the usual measure for a presumptive change of control pursuant to these laws is the acquisition of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company, although this presumption is rebuttable. consequently, a person acquiring 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company without the prior approval of the insurance regulators in the state(s) of domicile of the insurance company(ies) sought to be acquired (or whose holding company is sought to be acquired) will be in violation of these laws. such a person may also be subject to one or more of the following actions: (i) injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those shares by the applicable insurance regulators; (ii) prohibition of voting of such shares; and (iii) other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulators. further, many states' insurance laws require that prior notification be given to state insurance regulators of a change in control of a non-domiciled insurance company doing business in the state. these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance regulators to disapprove the change in control; however, they do authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist, such as undue market concentration. any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-notification laws. these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. 15 federal laws and regulations enacted in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank) effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the united states. dodd-frank directs various government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, many of which remain to be completed. among other provisions, dodd-frank creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets, including requiring that certain swaps be executed through a centralized exchange or regulated facility and be cleared through a regulated clearinghouse and subjecting major swap participants to capital and margin (i.e., collateral) requirements, which will likely have the effect of increasing the costs of hedging generally and the credit risk posed by some counterparties. we use derivative transactions to help us manage certain risks in our business. new margin requirements for cleared and uncleared transactions are expected to require the posting of higher margin levels for our derivatives activities and also may narrowly restrict the range of eligible collateral, which may require us to hold more of our assets in cash or cash equivalents that generate lower yields than other investments. dodd-frank also established a financial stability oversight council (fsoc) with authority to subject systemically important financial companies (including non-bank financial companies such as us) to supervision and stricter prudential regulation by the board of governors of the federal reserve board, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, stress testing, and credit exposure, and in certain circumstances limitations on acquisitions or combinations, restrictions on product offerings, and/or requirements to sell assets. the fsoc adopted final rules for evaluating whether a non-bank financial company should be designated as systemically important. we have not been designated as a systemically important financial company, and based on the quantitative criteria set forth in the final rules, at this time we believe it is unlikely that we will be subject to such designation. in addition, dodd-frank established a federal insurance office (fio) within the department of the treasury to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry (other than with respect to health insurance, certain long-term care insurance, and crop insurance), including identifying issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or the u.s. financial system and recommending insurers (potentially including us) that should be designated for stricter regulation. the fio released its report on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the united states, which concluded that modernization and improvement are possible through a combination of steps by states and certain actions by the federal government. the report made recommendations for enhanced uniformity and efficiency by states in the areas of insolvency and marketplace regulation and for direct federal involvement in certain areas, such as for the fio to engage in supervisory colleges and also to study and report on the manner in which personal information is used for insurance pricing and coverage purposes. we are subject to the laws and regulations generally applicable to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange relating to public reporting and disclosure, accounting and financial reporting, corporate governance, and securities trading. further, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and rules and regulations adopted under this regulation, have increased the requirements for us and other public companies in these and other areas. the usa patriot act of 2001 (patriot act) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. the patriot act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. anti-money laundering laws outside of the united states contain some similar provisions. additionally, other federal laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and regulations issued by the office of foreign asset's controls, as well as the u.k.'s bribery act of 2010, have increased requirements relating to identifying customers, prohibiting transactions with certain organizations or individuals, watching for and reporting suspicious transactions, responding to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, sharing information with other financial institutions, and requiring the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls. we are subject to federal income, employment, excise and other taxes related to both our u.s. and our foreign operations. federal tax laws and regulations are subject to change, and any such change could materially increase our federal taxes and reduce our profitability. we continually monitor federal tax legislative and regulatory developments to understand their potential impact on our profitability. for further discussion of regulation, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. 16 geographic areas operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our unum uk segment was approximately 7 percent of our consolidated operating revenue in each of the years 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . as of december 31, 2015 , total assets and total liabilities for our unum uk segment each equaled approximately 5 percent of consolidated assets and liabilities. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency of our unum uk segment will impact our reported operating results. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. see "reporting segments" contained herein in item 1; "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7; and note 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum uk's operating results. employees at december 31, 2015 , we had approximately 9,400 full-time employees. available information our internet website address is www.unum.com . we make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. executive officers of the registrant our executive officers, who are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by unum group's board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. name age position richard p. mckenney 47 president and chief executive officer and a director timothy g. arnold 53 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life breege a. farrell 56 executive vice president, chief investment officer lisa g. iglesias 50 executive vice president, general counsel christopher j. jerome 54 executive vice president, global services john f. mcgarry 58 executive vice president and chief financial officer peter g. o'donnell 49 president and chief executive officer, unum uk michael q. simonds 42 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us mr. mckenney became president in april 2015 and chief executive officer in may 2015. he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer from august 2009 until april 2015, having joined the company in july 2009. before joining the company, mr. mckenney served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of sun life financial inc., an international financial services company, from february 2007, having joined that company as executive vice president in september 2006. he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of genworth financial, inc., a global financial security company, from may 2004 until august 2006. mr. arnold was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life in january 2015, after having served as executive vice president, president, colonial life from july 2014. he previously served as senior vice president, sales and marketing, colonial life from august 2012, as senior vice president, chief operations officer, colonial life from july 2011, and as senior vice president, integrated underwriting, unum us from may 2010. mr. arnold originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1985. ms. farrell was named executive vice president, chief investment officer in august 2013, after having joined the company as senior vice president and chief investment officer in april 2011. before joining the company, she held a number of executive-level investment positions within the allstate corporation, a personal lines insurer, including as senior managing director of allstate investments, llc and certain affiliated companies from january 2010 to april 2011, and as managing director of these companies from august 2004 to january 2010. 17 ms. iglesias was named executive vice president, general counsel upon joining the company in january 2015. she served as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary of wellcare health plans, inc., a managed care company, from february 2012 to december 2014, having first joined wellcare in february 2010 as vice president, securities and assistant general counsel. prior to that, she served as general counsel and corporate secretary for nordstrom, inc., a fashion specialty retailer, from 2007 to 2008, and as general counsel and secretary of spherion corporation, a recruiting and staffing company, from 1999 to 2007. mr. jerome was named executive vice president, global services in july 2013, after having served as senior vice president, global services from january 2012. he previously served as senior vice president, risk operations from july 2010, as senior vice president, underwriting &amp; service operations, unum us from may 2010, and as senior vice president, group underwriting operations from august 2006. mr. jerome originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1983. mr. mcgarry became executive vice president and chief financial officer in april 2015. he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, closed block operations from august 2013 to april 2015, after having served as executive vice president, individual disability and long-term care closed block operations from september 2012. he previously served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk from july 2010, and as senior vice president, benefits, individual disability, and national client group business, unum us from january 2010. prior to that, he served in various other capacities within unum us, including as senior vice president, benefits operations and risk management from march 2008 to january 2010, and as senior vice president, benefits operations from january 2006 to march 2008. mr. mcgarry originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1986. mr. o'donnell was named president and chief executive officer, unum uk, in september 2012, after having joined the company as unum limited's chief financial officer in 2010. prior to joining unum limited, mr. o'donnell served as director of group finance at prudential plc, an international financial services company, from may 2008 to may 2010. he served as finance director at royal &amp; sunalliance plc, an international financial services company, from may 2005 to may 2008. mr. simonds was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us in july 2013, after having served as senior vice president and chief operating officer, unum us from june 2012. he previously served as senior vice president, growth operations, unum us from july 2010, and as senior vice president and chief marketing officer, unum us from march 2008. mr. simonds originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1994, left the company in 2000 to further his education and to serve as a consultant with mckinsey &amp; company, a global management consulting firm, and rejoined the company in 2003. 18 item 1a. risk factors we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. discussed below are factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases. see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1. sustained periods of low interest rates in the long-term investment market may adversely affect our reported net investment income and the discount rates used in reserving for our insurance products and projecting our pension obligations, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. further declines in interest rates and/or the continuance of the current level of low interest rates and yields on fixed income investments may cause the rates of return on our investment portfolio to decrease more than expected, leading to lower net investment income than assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products. an interest, or discount, rate is used in calculating reserves for our insurance products. we set our reserve discount rate assumptions based on our current and expected future investment yield for assets supporting the reserves, considering current and expected future market conditions. if the discount rate assumed in our reserve calculations is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets will not earn enough investment income to support our future claim payments. in that case, the reserves may eventually be insufficient, resulting in the need to increase our reserves and/or increase our capital contributions to our insurance subsidiaries, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. our net periodic benefit costs and the value of our benefit obligations for our pension plans are determined based on a set of economic and demographic assumptions that represent our best estimate of future expected experience. major assumptions used in accounting for these plans include the expected discount (interest) rate and the long-term rate of return on plan assets. we set the discount rate assumption at the measurement date for each of our plans to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality fixed income corporate debt instruments matched against the timing and amounts of projected future benefits. a lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases our costs. our expectations for the future investment returns on plan assets are based on a combination of historical market performance, current market conditions, and future capital market assumptions obtained from external consultants and economists. the actual rate of return on plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period. increases or decreases in long-term interest rates as well as equity market volatility will impact the fair value of our plan assets and may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, "interest rate risk" contained herein in item 7a, and note 9 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. actual experience may differ from our reserve assumptions which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. historical results may not be indicative of future performance due to, among other things, changes in our mix of business, re-pricing of certain lines of business, or any number of economic cyclical effects on our business. reserves, whether calculated under gaap or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. actual experience may differ from our reserve assumptions. there can be no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. life expectancies may continue to increase, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives disability or long-term care benefits and could result in a change in mortality assumptions and an increase in reserves for these and other long-tailed products. adjustments to reserve amounts may also be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors); premium rate increases; persistency; policy benefit offsets, including those for social security and other government-based welfare benefits; and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 19 see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and notes 1 and 6 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. unfavorable economic conditions may result in lower sales, lower premium growth and persistency, higher claims incidence, and longer claims duration, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, both in the united states, the united kingdom, and to a lesser extent, the broader global financial markets. negative developments in the capital markets and/or the general economy could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in particular, factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses. given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, new product sales may be adversely affected. our premium growth may also be negatively impacted by lower premium growth from existing customers due to lower salary growth and lower growth in the number of employees covered under an existing policy. in addition, during such periods we may experience higher claims incidence, longer claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation, which may affect the cost or demand for our products, increase capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and adversely affect our profitability, liquidity, or growth. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the united states and abroad. the primary purpose of insurance regulation is to protect policyholders, not stockholders. to that end, applicable laws establish regulatory authorities, including state insurance departments in the united states and the pra in the united kingdom, with broad administrative powers over many aspects of the insurance business. for example, our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, we and our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. these laws and regulations can be complex and subject to differing interpretations and are regularly re-examined. existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. for example, they may restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us, restrict transactions between subsidiaries and/or between us and our subsidiaries, and may require contributions of capital by us to our insurance subsidiaries even if we are otherwise in compliance with stated requirements. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws or regulations could result in restrictions on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which they operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. it is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled and operate. we cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. the naic or state regulators may adopt revisions to the rbc formula, the pra may revise its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, the iais may adopt capital requirements to which we could be subject, or rating agencies may incorporate higher capital thresholds into their quantitative analyses, thus requiring additional capital contributions by us to our insurance subsidiaries. increased financial services regulation, which could include activities undertaken by the naic and the european commission, may impose greater quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and disclosure requirements and may impact the business strategies, capital requirements, and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. the united kingdom's financial ombudsman service, which was established to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses providing financial services, and the fca, which has rule-making, investigative, and enforcement powers to protect consumers, may hamper our ability to do business, which could have a material adverse effect on our u.k. operations. programs such as healthcare reform and financial services sector reform may compete with or diminish the need or demand for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace. the united states social security disability insurance program may not be sustainable, which may adversely affect the level of our disability claim payments and reserves. 20 we use affiliated captive reinsurers for the limited purpose of reinsuring risks attributable to specified policies issued or reinsured by our insurance subsidiaries in order to effectively manage risks in connection with certain blocks of our business as well as to enhance our capital efficiency. if we were required to discontinue use of the captive reinsurers or to alter the structure of the captive reinsurance arrangements, our ability to maintain current rbc ratios and/or our capital deployment activities could be adversely affected. legislative changes related to pension funding requirements could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and our profitability. changes in tax laws and other regulations or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes. furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could be impacted by our future earnings levels. changes in tax laws could also make some of our products less attractive to consumers. we cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be, or whether, if at all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. dodd-frank directs existing and recently created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years. as a result of the regulations implemented thus far, regulations directed at some derivative activities and the implementation of central clearing rules have increased the cost of some hedging activities primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements. we cannot predict the requirements of the remaining regulations that will ultimately be adopted or how or whether such regulations will affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition, require us to raise additional capital, or result in a downgrade of our credit ratings. most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by the employee retirement income security act (erisa). changes to erisa enacted by congress or through judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability. the insurance departments in jurisdictions wherein our insurance subsidiaries conduct business may limit our ability to obtain rate increases under guaranteed renewable contracts or could require changes in rates and/or benefits to meet minimum loss ratio requirements which could negatively impact the profitability of our products. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. these actions could result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in our claims handling or other business practices, changes in procedures for the identification and payment to the states of benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, increases to reserving requirements, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, assessments by tax authorities or other governing agencies, fines, and other administrative action, which could injure our reputation, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, and/or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and notes 7 and 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. in addition to interest rate risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. default risk our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer's industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, unforeseen accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer's marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations. 21 our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk. events or developments, such as economic conditions that impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio. events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector. a default results in the recognition of an impairment loss on the investment. a default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us. the probability of credit downgrades and defaults increases when the fixed income markets experience periods of volatility and illiquidity. credit spread risk our exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable u.s. treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads may unfavorably impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of the investment portfolio and may adversely impact liquidity. credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities. valuation risk we report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at fair value. valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, particularly during periods of market disruption, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we evaluate our investment portfolio for impairments. there can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken. additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. any event reducing the value of our securities other than on a temporary basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. market timing and liquidity risk while we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, there may at times be a lack of appropriate investments in the market which can be acquired. in addition, we may, in certain circumstances, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. there may also be a limited market for certain of our investments, such as our private placement fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, and policy loans, which makes them more illiquid. in periods of market volatility or disruption, other of our securities may also experience reduced liquidity. if events occur wherein we need to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment or need to quickly sell securities which are illiquid, market prices may be lower than what we might realize under normal circumstances, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of our investments and derivatives. a cyber attack or other security breach could disrupt our operations, result in the unauthorized disclosure or loss of confidential data, damage our reputation or relationships, and expose us to significant financial and legal liability, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we store confidential policyholder and employee information and other proprietary information on our information technology systems as a part of our normal business operations. although we devote significant resources to maintain security systems and implement measures to protect our information technology systems and the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information retained on them, and to date have not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity, there is no assurance that these systems and measures will be sufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. we have contractual and governance safeguards in place with our third-party outsourcing partners and cloud computing providers to manage security as part of the service they deliver to us, but these measures may not prevent attackers from exploiting weaknesses in their networks to access, 22 misappropriate, alter, or delete our data. threats to our systems or those of third-party providers may originate externally, such as from cyber criminals or other hackers, or internally from within our company, such as from employee error or malfeasance. in some cases, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, we may be unaware of emerging threats and the magnitude of their effects, or we may not become aware of an unauthorized data disclosure incident for some time after it occurs, which could increase our exposure. as we increase the amount of information that we retain and that we share with third parties, our exposure to data security and related cybersecurity risks increases. a successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our information systems could cause serious negative consequences for us, including significant disruption of our operations, the loss or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information retained on those systems, harm to our reputation, decreased levels of customer service or satisfaction, violations of applicable privacy or other laws, and exposure to litigation or enforcement proceedings. while we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides coverage for network security, privacy liability, technology errors and omissions, media liability, first party network business interruption, and electronic restoration (which includes coverage for credit monitoring, notification costs, regulatory expense, and investigative expense), our insurance may not provide adequate loss coverage in all circumstances. the failure of our business recovery and incident management processes to resume our business operations in the event of a natural catastrophe, cyber attack, or other event could adversely affect our profitability, results of operations, or financial condition. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, a cyber attack, cyber security breach or other information technology systems failure, a terrorist attack, or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those problems affect our information technology systems and destroy valuable data. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our employees were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. the failure of our information technology and/or disaster recovery systems for any reason could cause significant interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers' operations and result in the loss, theft, or failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions, legal claims, and increased expenses, and lead to a loss of customers and revenues. competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability. all of our businesses are highly competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, quality of customer service and claims management, integrated product choices, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. we compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability. we are operating in a dynamic competitive environment of both traditional and non-traditional competitors, with changes in product offerings, enrollment approaches, and technology solutions. the level and intensity of competition may also grow due to existing competitors becoming more aggressive, and an increase in merger and acquisition activity which may result in larger competitors with greater financial resources. there are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies and new competitors in the future. see "competition" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. the failure to effectively execute upgrades to or replacements of information technology systems could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we rely heavily on the effective operation of our information technology systems to administer our business. although we believe we have information technology systems which adequately support our business needs, we continually upgrade our existing information technology systems and acquire or develop new systems to keep pace with the rapidly changing business and technology environment. there are risks involved with upgrading or replacing information technology systems, including, but not limited to, data loss, data errors, and disruption to our operations. we seek to monitor and control our exposure to the risks arising out of these activities through our risk control framework which encompasses a variety of reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes, and other mechanisms. 23 a decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may adversely affect our competitive position, our ability to hedge our risks, and our cost of capital or ability to raise capital, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. a downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect our relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. a downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to unum group can be expected to adversely affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise additional capital. if we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our derivatives financial instrument contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts. such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks. see "ratings" contained herein in item 1 and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. there are many events which may harm our reputation, including, but not limited to, those discussed in this item 1a regarding regulatory investigations, legal proceedings, and cyber or other information security incidents. in addition, as an insurance company, we are paid to accept certain risks. those who conduct our business, including executive officers and members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, and to some extent, independent agents and brokers, do so in part by making decisions that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline, maintaining effective claim management and customer service performance, managing our investment portfolio and derivatives trading activities, delivering effective technology solutions, complying with established sales practices, executing our capital management strategy, exiting a line of business and/or pursuing strategic growth initiatives, and other decisions. although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks or unintentionally failing to comply with internal policies and practices such that errors occur, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures will be effective. if our employees and business associates take excessive risks and/or fail to comply with internal policies and practices, the impact of those events may damage our market position and reputation. depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital and/or increase our cost of capital. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and note 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on regulatory matters and legal proceedings. we provide a broad array of disability, long-term care, group life, and voluntary insurance products that are affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. disability insurance disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence and recoveries for disability insurance. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses. claim durations may be extended by medical improvements which could extend life expectancies. the relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. 24 within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. the pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ among product classes. our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business. guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market. long-term care insurance long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products. this creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval by our states of domicile and may also be subject to approval by jurisdictions in which our policyholders reside. the rate approval process can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all, and the rate increases ultimately approved may be favorable or unfavorable relative to assumptions used to establish our reserves. we monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends. changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves. mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives long-term care benefits and may subject more policyholders to advanced aging and an associated increase in claims incidence. medical advances may continue to have an impact on claim incidence and duration, both favorable and unfavorable. due to the long duration of the product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. sustained periods of low or declining interest rates could result in increases in reserves and adversely affect our results of operations. group life insurance group life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, and pandemic health events, which may also affect the cost of and availability of reinsurance coverage. voluntary products voluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics. our voluntary life insurance products generally include interest sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate. it is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate. the non-life contracts are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1 and "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. our risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. we have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, and operations risks, which ultimately impact our reputational risk. however, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for monitoring and managing risk may not fully predict or mitigate future exposures. see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further information about our risk management program. 25 litigation and contingencies are common in our businesses and may result in financial losses and/or harm to our reputation. we are, and in the future may be, defendants in a number of litigation matters, and the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. an estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings. as part of our normal operations in managing claims, we are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. we expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and note 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings. reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. as part of our overall risk management and capital management strategies, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and may impact the level of capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business, result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue, and increase our capital requirements. the collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the effectiveness of our hedging programs may be affected by changes in the economic environment, changes in interest rates, capital market volatility, non-performance by our counterparties, changes in the level of required collateral, or regulation, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we use derivative financial instruments to help us manage certain risks related to our business operations, primarily interest rate risk, risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities, and foreign currency risk. factors associated with derivative financial instruments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. ineffectiveness of our hedges due to changes in expected future events, such as the risk created by uncertainty in the economic environment or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance by our counterparties, many of which are financial institutions. non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind hedges, and we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged. under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral, which may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral. changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute hedging strategies due to the increased economic cost of derivatives, primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements. 26 changes in accounting standards may materially affect our financial statements. our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, in both the united states and the united kingdom, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the u.s. financial accounting standards board (fasb), the u.k. accounting standards board (asb), and the naic. accounting standards issued by the fasb and asb may be influenced by the international accounting standards board (iasb). these authoritative bodies have several ongoing projects regarding accounting standards that will likely be issued in the near future. future accounting standards we adopt will change current accounting and disclosure requirements applicable to our financial statements. such changes may have a material effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition. currency translation could materially impact our reported operating results. the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results. however, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert pounds into dollars. as a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. our ability to finance our ongoing operations may not always be possible solely from internal sources of capital and liquidity. if we need to seek external capital, there is the risk that adverse market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital or our cost of capital. a change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations. deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in this item 1a may impose higher capital or reserve requirements on our insurance subsidiaries, increase collateral requirements for certain of our derivatives transactions, and/or implement other requirements which could unfavorably affect our liquidity. without sufficient liquidity, our ability to maintain and grow our operations would be limited. if our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us. if our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus is considered important not only by us but by insurance regulatory authorities in the u.s., the pra in the u.k., and the rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary's ability to distribute funds to our holding companies. obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be challenging in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty. the markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. the availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock in unum group. we rely on our credit facility as a potential source of liquidity. our right to borrow funds under this facility is subject to financial covenants, negative covenants, and events of default. our ability to borrow under this facility is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facility or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments would restrict our ability to access this facility when needed, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "liquidity and capital resources" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 8 and 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. 27 as a holding company, unum group depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it so that it can meet its obligations and pay dividends. unum group is a holding company for insurance and other subsidiaries and has no significant operations of its own. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance laws and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds or other assets to affiliates, including to unum group. the level of earnings and capital in our subsidiaries, as well as business conditions and rating agency considerations, could impact our insurance and other subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to unum group, which could impair our ability to pay dividends to unum group's common stockholders, meet our debt and other payment obligations, and/or repurchase shares of unum group's common stock. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1,"liquidity and capital resources" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and note 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. we have assets which may not be fully recoverable or realizable, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. if our business does not perform well or as initially anticipated in our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment loss on intangible assets or long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset. we have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (dac), value of business acquired (voba), and goodwill. dac and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for dac and voba is performed on an annual basis. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either dac and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary, we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate and information technology software, also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we may be unable to recover the carrying amount. we assess our deferred tax assets to determine if they are realizable. factors in our determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate future taxable income. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established with a corresponding charge to net income. charges such as accelerated amortization, impairment losses, or the establishment of valuation allowances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 7, and 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. 28 the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of certain assets in our investment portfolio, disrupt our operations, or result in higher claim costs. the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military actions, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in the global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, business disruption, and reduced economic activity. some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad. in addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. beyond obtaining insurance coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events away from us. we purchase reinsurance protection against catastrophic disaster events, including terrorism. the continued threat of terrorism could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. see "reinsurance" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 87 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to various market risk exposures, including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding our risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating our overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a, "investments" contained herein in item 7, and notes 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate changes results from our holdings of financial instruments such as fixed rate investments, derivatives, and interest sensitive liabilities. fixed rate investments include fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, and short-term investments. fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, public utility bonds, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and redeemable preferred stock, all of which are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations. certain of our financial instruments, fixed maturity securities and derivatives, are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of these financial instruments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. a rise in interest rates may decrease the net unrealized gain related to these financial instruments, but may improve our ability to earn higher rates of return on new purchases of fixed maturity securities. conversely, a decline in interest rates may increase the net unrealized gain, but new securities may be purchased at lower rates of return. although changes in fair value of fixed maturity securities and derivatives due to changes in interest rates may impact amounts reported in our consolidated balance sheets, these changes will not cause an economic gain or loss unless we sell investments, terminate derivative positions, determine that an investment is other than temporarily impaired, or determine that a derivative instrument is no longer an effective hedge. other fixed rate investments, such as mortgage loans and policy loans, are carried at amortized cost and unpaid balances, respectively, rather than fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. these investments may have fair values substantially higher or lower than the carrying values reflected in our balance sheets. a change in interest rates could impact our financial position if we sold our mortgage loan investments at times of low market value. a change in interest rates would not impact our financial position at repayment of policy loans, as ultimately the cash surrender values or death benefits would be reduced for the carrying value of any outstanding policy loans. carrying amounts for short-term investments approximate fair value, and we believe we have minimal interest rate risk exposure from these investments. we believe that the risk of being forced to liquidate investments or terminate derivative positions is minimal, primarily due to the level of capital at our insurance subsidiaries, the level of cash and marketable securities at our holding companies, and our investment strategy which we believe provides for adequate cash flows to meet the funding requirements of our business. we may in certain circumstances, however, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. 87 although our policy benefits are primarily in the form of claim payments and we therefore have minimal exposure to the policy withdrawal risk associated with deposit products such as individual life policies or annuities, the fair values of liabilities under all insurance contracts are taken into consideration in our overall management of interest rate risk, which minimizes exposure to changing interest rates through the matching of investment cash flows with amounts due under insurance contracts. changes in interest rates and individuals' behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. we actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to limit interest rate risk. due to the long duration of our long-term care product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. we model and test asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios enables us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to limit the risk of disadvantageous outcomes. we use this analysis in determining hedging strategies and utilizing derivative financial instruments. we use current and forward interest rate swaps, options on forward interest rate swaps, and forward treasury locks to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. debt is not carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. if we modify or replace existing debt instruments at current market rates, we may incur a gain or loss on the transaction. we believe our debt-related risk to changes in interest rates is relatively minimal. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. we measure our financial instruments' market risk related to changes in interest rates using a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates potential changes in fair values as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 based on a hypothetical immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels. the selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. the hypothetical potential changes in fair value of our financial instruments at december 31, 2015 and 2014 are shown as follows: december 31, 2015 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 43,354.4 $ 39,917.3 $ (3,437.1 ) mortgage loans 2,013.9 1,914.1 (99.8 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 347.9 321.5 (26.4 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and deferred acquisition costs (2) $ (3,344.6 ) $ (1,038.5 ) $ 2,306.1 short-term debt (366.2 ) (363.6 ) 2.6 long-term debt (2,645.9 ) (2,472.4 ) 173.5 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,470.3 $ (0.4 ) $ (7.2 ) $ (6.8 ) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (87.6 ) (88.1 ) (0.5 ) 88 december 31, 2014 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 45,064.9 $ 41,394.8 $ (3,670.1 ) mortgage loans 2,024.2 1,931.3 (92.9 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 339.2 313.2 (26.0 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and deferred acquisition costs (2) $ (5,836.1 ) $ (3,071.9 ) $ 2,764.2 short-term debt (158.9 ) (157.8 ) 1.1 long-term debt (2,912.6 ) (2,745.6 ) 167.0 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,687.4 $ (64.9 ) $ (86.8 ) $ (21.9 ) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (49.9 ) (55.6 ) (5.7 ) (1) these financial instruments are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates may affect the fair value at which the item is reported in our consolidated balance sheets. the corresponding offsetting change is reported in other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes, except for changes in the fair value of derivatives accounted for as fair value hedges or derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, the offset of which is reported as a component of net realized investment gain or loss. (2) the adjustment to reserves and deferred acquisition costs for unrealized investment gains and losses reflects the adjustments to policyholder liabilities and deferred acquisition costs that would be necessary if the unrealized investment gains and losses related to the fixed maturity securities and derivatives had been realized. changes in this adjustment are also reported as a component of other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities was estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values shown in the chart above for all other items were determined using discounted cash flow analyses. because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. we remain in an environment of low interest rates, which continues to place pressure on our profit margins as we invest cash flows to support our businesses. we estimate that we will have approximately $2.8 billion of investable cash flows in 2016. assuming interest rates and credit spreads remain constant throughout 2016 at the january 2016 market levels, our net investment income would decrease by approximately $0.6 million in 2016 and $5 million in 2017 as a result of the investment of cash flows at levels below our current expectations. this interest rate scenario does not give consideration to the effect of other factors which could impact these results, such as changes in the bond market and changes in hedging strategies and positions, nor does it consider the potential change to our discount rate reserve assumptions and any mitigating factors such as pricing adjustments. in addition, a continued low or declining interest rate environment may also result in an increase in the net periodic benefit costs for our pension plans, but we do not believe it would materially affect net income in 2016 or 2017. foreign currency risk the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. we are exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in the british pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rates primarily as they relate to the translation of the financial results of our u.k. operations. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results. we do not hedge against the possible impact of this risk. because we do not actually convert pounds into dollars except for a limited number of transactions, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue and not a reflection of operations or profitability in our u.k. operations. 89 assuming the pound to dollar exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2015 and 2014 levels, stockholders' equity as reported in u.s. dollars would have been lower by approximately $100 million at each of those year end periods. assuming the pound to dollar average exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the actual average exchange rates for 2015 and 2014 , before-tax operating income, as reported in u.s. dollars, would have decreased approximately $15 million in each of those two years. dividends paid by unum limited are generally held at our u.k. finance subsidiary or our u.k. holding company. if these funds are repatriated to our u.s. holding company, we would at that time be subject to foreign currency risk as the value of the dividend, when converted into u.s. dollars, would be dependent upon the foreign exchange rate at the time of conversion. we are also exposed to foreign currency risk related to certain foreign investment securities denominated in local currencies. we use foreign currency interest rate swaps to hedge or minimize the foreign exchange risk associated with these instruments. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "consolidated operating results" and "unum uk segment" contained herein in item 7 for further information concerning foreign currency translation. risk management effectively taking and managing risks is essential to the success of our company. to facilitate this effort, we have a formal enterprise risk management (erm) program, with a framework comprising the following key components: risk culture and governance risk appetite policy risk identification and prioritization risk and capital modeling risk management activities risk reporting our erm framework is the ongoing system of people, processes, and tools across our company under which we intend to function consistently and collectively to identify and assess risks and opportunities, to manage all material risks within our risk appetite, and to contribute to strategic decision making. with the goal of maximizing shareholder value, the primary objectives of our erm framework are to support unum group in meeting its operational and financial objectives, maintaining liquidity, optimizing capital, and protecting franchise value. risk culture and governance we employ a decentralized risk management model under which risk-based decisions are made daily on a local level. to achieve long-term success, we believe risk management must be the responsibility of all employees. the individual and collective decisions of our employees play a key role in successfully managing our overall risk profile. we strive for a culture of integrity, commitment, and accountability and we believe these values allow our employees to feel comfortable identifying issues as well as taking ownership for addressing potential problems. 90 our culture is reinforced by our system of risk governance. we employ a multi-layered risk control system. our three lines of defense model is depicted below. 1st line: own and manage 2nd line: oversee 3rd line: independent assurance business processes and procedures employed throughout the company through which management assumes and monitors significant risks management committees chartered with oversight of activities within the 1st and 2nd lines of defense, mitigation of substantial exposures, and management of emerging risks independent review of erm framework and risk mitigation business units are primarily responsible for managing their principal risks. our risk committees and other management committees serve risk and control functions responsible for providing risk oversight, or the second line of risk control. our internal audit team provides periodic independent reviews and assurance activities serving as our third line of risk control. in addition, our board has an active role, as a whole and through its committees, in overseeing management of our risks. the board is responsible for managing strategic risk and regularly reviews information regarding our capital, liquidity, and operations, as well as the risks associated with each. the risk and finance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of our risk management process, including financial risk, operational risk, and any other risk not specifically assigned to another board committee. it also is responsible for oversight of risks associated with investments, capital and financing plans and activities, and related financial matters, including matters pertaining to our closed block segment. the audit committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to financial reporting risk and certain operational risks. the human capital committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to our compensation plans and programs. the regulatory compliance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks related to regulatory, compliance, policy, and legal matters, both current and emerging, and whether of a local, state, federal, or international nature. while each committee is responsible for evaluating certain risks and overseeing the management of such risks, the entire board is regularly informed through committee reports about such risks in addition to the risk information it receives directly. our executive risk management committee is responsible for overseeing our enterprise-wide risk management program. the chief risk officer, who is a member of the executive risk management committee, has primary responsibility for our erm program and is supported by corporate risk committees and by the risk committees of our operating segments. operating segment risk committees for unum us, unum uk, colonial life, and closed block are responsible for oversight of risks specific to their businesses. these committees are responsible for identifying, measuring, reporting, and managing insurance and operational risks within their respective areas, consistent with enterprise risk management guidance. corporate risk committees and other management committees oversee the operational, global technology services, investment, and capital management risks on a corporate level. risk appetite policy our risk appetite policy describes the types of risks we are willing to take, as well as the amount of enterprise risk exposure we deem acceptable in pursuit of our goals, with an objective of clearly defining boundaries for our risk-taking activities. the starting point of our philosophy and approach to our erm strategy is our corporate strategy. in contrast to many multi-line peer companies, we do not offer retirement savings, traditional medical benefits, or property and casualty insurance. our corporate strategy is focused on providing group, individual, and voluntary benefits, either as stand-alone products or combined with other coverages, that create comprehensive benefits solutions for employers. we have market leadership positions in the product lines we offer and believe this combination of focused expertise and experience is a competitive advantage and forms the foundation of our approach to risk management. we believe our sound and consistent business practices, strong internal compliance program, and comprehensive risk management strategy enable us to operate efficiently and to identify and address potential areas of risk in our business. we take and manage risks to achieve our business and strategic objectives, and our risk appetite statement sets boundaries for risk-taking activities that link earnings, capital, and operational processes, as well as summarizes our most material risk limits and controls. we monitor our risk profile against our established risk tolerance and limits. risks falling outside our risk tolerance and limits are reported to the applicable governance group, where decisions are made pertaining to acceptance of the risk or implementation of remediation plans or corrective actions as deemed appropriate by that governance group. 91 risk identification and prioritization risk identification and prioritization is an ongoing process, whereby we identify and assess our risk positions and exposures, including notable risk events. additionally, we identify emerging risks and analyze how material future risks might affect us. knowing the potential risks we face allows us to monitor and manage their potential effects including adjusting our strategies as appropriate and holding capital levels which provide financial flexibility. risk and other management committees have primary responsibility for identifying and prioritizing risks within their respective areas. we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. for additional information on certain risks that may adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1 and "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. risk and capital modeling we assess material risks, including how they affect us and how individual risks interrelate, to provide valuable information to management in order that they may effectively manage our risks. we use qualitative and quantitative approaches to assess existing and emerging risks and to develop mitigating strategies to limit our exposure to both. we utilize stress testing and scenario analysis for risk management and to shape our business, financial, and strategic planning activities. both are key components of our risk appetite policy and play an important role in monitoring, assessing, managing, and mitigating our primary risk exposures. in particular, stress testing of our capital and liquidity management strategies enables us to identify areas of high exposure, assess mitigating actions, develop contingency plans, and guide decisions around our target capital and liquidity levels. for example, we periodically perform stress tests on certain categories of assets or liabilities to support development of capital and liquidity risk contingency plans. these tests help ensure that we have a buffer to support our operations in uncertain times and financial flexibility to respond to market opportunities. stress testing is also central to reserve adequacy testing, cash flow testing, and asset and liability management. in addition, we aim to constantly improve our capital modeling techniques and methodologies that are used to determine a level of capital that is commensurate with our risk profile and to ensure compliance with evolving regulatory and rating agency requirements. our capital modeling reflects appropriate aggregation of risks and diversification benefits resulting from our mix of products and business units. our internal capital modeling and allocation aids us in making significant business decisions including strategic planning, capital management, risk limit determination, reinsurance purchases, hedging activities, asset allocation, pricing, and corporate development. risk management activities we accept and manage strategic, credit, and insurance risks in accordance with our corporate strategy, investment policy, and annual business plans. the following fundamental principles are embedded in our risk management efforts across our company. we believe in the benefits of specialization and a focused business strategy. we seek profitable risk-taking in areas where we have established risk management skills and capabilities. we seek to manage our exposure to insurance risk through a combination of prudent underwriting with effective risk selection, maintaining pricing discipline, sound reserving practices, claims operational effectiveness, and selective use of reinsurance. detailed underwriting guidelines and claim policies are tools used to manage our insurance risk exposure. we also monitor exposures against internally prescribed limits, and we diversify to reduce potential concentration risk and volatility. we maintain a detailed set of investment policies and guidelines, including fundamental credit analysis, that are used to manage our credit risk exposure and diversify our risks across asset classes and issuers. finally, we foster a culture that embeds our corporate values and our code of conduct in our daily operations and preserves our reputation with customers and other key stakeholders. we monitor a composite set of operational risk metrics that measure operating effectiveness from the customer perspective. 92 risk reporting regular internal and external risk reporting is an integral part of our erm framework. internally, erm reports are a standard part of our quarterly senior management and board meetings. the reports summarize our existing and emerging risk exposures, as well as report against the tolerances and limits defined by our risk appetite policy. externally, we are subject to a number of regulatory and rating agency risk examinations, and risk reports are often included. annually, we file our own risk and solvency assessment summary report with the applicable insurance regulators for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries. this report provides strong evidence of the strengths of our erm framework, measurement approaches, key assumptions utilized in assessing our risks, and prospective solvency assessments under both normal and stressed conditions. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 for additional information regarding the orsa. 93risk factors 18 competition there is significant competition among insurance companies for the types of products we sell. we are operating in a dynamic competitive environment of both traditional and non-traditional competitors, with changes in product offerings, enrollment services, and technology solutions. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, quality of the customer experience regarding service and claims management, integrated product choices, enrollment capabilities, financial strength ratings, and claims-paying ratings. in the individual and group disability markets, we compete in the united states with a number of major companies and regionally with other companies offering specialty products. our principal competitors for our other products, including group life and the product offerings sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction, include the largest insurance companies in the united states. some of these companies have more competitive pricing or have higher claims-paying ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. 12 in the united kingdom, we compete for the individual and group products we sell with a mix of large internationally recognized providers and strong local carriers. we have observed some of these providers aggressively trying to maintain or grow market share in a difficult economic environment, characterized by very low interest rates and expense pressures on employers and individuals. we believe the need for the types of products we offer is significant. in both the united states and the united kingdom, individuals and families often live paycheck to paycheck with a considerable chance of being out of work. pressure is also mounting on governments as to the sustainability of public assistance. based on current penetration levels, we believe there is substantial upside growth potential. all areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of the group products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market. there is a risk that purchasers of employee benefits products may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us. the effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. we must attract and retain independent agents and brokers to actively market our products. strong competition exists among insurers for agents and brokers. we compete with other insurers for sales agents and brokers primarily on the basis of our product offerings, financial strength, support services, and compensation. sales of our products could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and brokers. for further discussion, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. regulation we and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive and comprehensive supervision and regulation both in the united states and in the united kingdom. the laws and regulations with which we must comply are complex and subject to change. new or existing laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. as a result of the financial market and economic challenges in recent years, regulation and the cost of compliance with regulation has continued to increase. insurance regulation and oversight our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and oversight by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they do business and by the u.s. department of labor (dol) on a national basis, primarily for the protection of policyholders. state insurance regulators in the u.s. generally have broad powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business, including the power to: license and examine insurance companies; regulate and supervise sales practices and market conduct; license agents and brokers; approve policy forms; approve premium rates and subsequent increases thereon for certain insurance products; establish reserve requirements and solvency standards; place limitations on shareholder dividends; prescribe the form and content of required financial statements and reports; regulate the types and amounts of permitted investments; and regulate reinsurance transactions. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are examined periodically by their states of domicile and by other states in which they are licensed to conduct business. the domestic examinations have traditionally emphasized financial matters from the perspective of protection of policyholders, but they can and have covered other subjects that an examining state may be interested in reviewing, such as market conduct issues. examinations in other states more typically focus on market conduct, such as a review of sales practices, including the content and use of advertising materials and the licensing and appointing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, and customer service practices, and identification and handling of unclaimed property to determine compliance with state laws. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessments by state insurance guaranty associations to cover the proportional cost of insolvent or failed insurers. the dol enforces a comprehensive federal statute which regulates claims paying fiduciary responsibilities and reporting and disclosure requirements for most employee benefit plans. our u.k. insurance subsidiary, unum limited, is subject to dual regulation by the prudential regulation authority (pra) and the financial conduct authority (fca). the pra oversees the financial health and stability of financial services firms and is responsible for the prudential regulation and day-to-day supervision of insurance companies. the fca seeks to protect consumers and oversees financial services products and practices, including those governing insurance companies in the u.k. 13 capital requirements risk based capital (rbc) standards for u.s. life insurance companies are prescribed by the national association of insurance commissioners (naic). the domiciliary states of our u.s. insurance subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the naic rbc model act, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers. the basis of the system is a risk-based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer's business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. the life and health rbc formula is designed to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks. the formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. the formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers generally. the naic continues to review the state-based solvency regulation framework to identify opportunities to respond to national and international insurance regulatory and solvency developments. the topics of its review include capital requirements, governance and risk management, statutory accounting and financial reporting, and reinsurance. this ongoing review will likely result in significant changes to u.s. insurance regulation and solvency standards, including those for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries. one of the outcomes of the naic's review was the adoption of the naic risk management and own risk and solvency assessment (orsa) model act which, following enactment at the state level, requires insurers to provide, at least annually, a group-level perspective on the risks of the current and future business plans and the sufficiency of capital to support those risks. of the states where our traditional u.s. insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, louisiana, maine, massachusetts, new york, and tennessee have enacted orsa requirements, and we file an orsa summary report annually with the applicable insurance regulators. during 2016, the naic established a working group charged with developing a group capital calculation that can be used by regulators as a baseline quantitative measure in assessing the risks and financial position of insurance groups. the initial recommendation for calculation is an rbc aggregation approach that would utilize existing regulatory calculations for legal entities within the group. items still under development include the scope of the group of legal entities that would be subject to the calculation as well as factors to be used for non-insurance entities and non-u.s. insurance entities within the group. it is too early to predict what, if any, impact this will have on our capital requirements. the naic has adopted a valuation manual containing a principles-based approach to life insurance company reserves. the effective date to begin a three-year implementation period is january 2017 and will apply only to new business. there will be no material impact on our statutory reserves. the naic established a subgroup to study the insurance industry's use of captive reinsurers and special purpose vehicles to transfer insurance risk and is considering ways to promote uniformity in both the approval and supervision of such reinsurers. the naic continues to study this issue and most recently adopted a proposal to subject certain captive reinsurers and special purpose vehicles to the same capital requirements as traditional insurers. as the naic continues to examine the issue, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of their work. although we believe it to be unlikely, a potential outcome of the naic study is that companies could be prohibited from using captive reinsurers. no changes in the use or regulation of captive reinsurers have been proposed by the naic, and it is too early to predict the extent of any changes that might be made. accordingly, we expect to continue our strategy of using captive reinsurers to manage risks and enhance capital efficiency while monitoring the naic's study and proposed changes in regulations. see "reinsurance" contained herein in this item 1 for further discussion. the pra has statutory requirements, including capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and minimum solvency margins, to which unum limited must adhere. as of january 1, 2016, solvency ii, a european union (eu) directive that prescribes new capital requirements and risk management standards that are the result of a fundamental review of the capital adequacy standards for the european insurance industry, replaced the previous capital requirements for unum limited. our european holding company is also subject to the solvency ii requirements relevant to insurance holding companies, while its subsidiaries (the unum european economic area (eea) group), which includes unum limited, are subject to group supervision under solvency ii. the unum eea group received approval from the pra to use its own internal model for calculating regulatory capital and also received approval for certain associated regulatory permissions including transitional relief as the solvency ii capital regime is implemented. as a result, there was no material change to capital requirements or to solvency ratios for the unum eea group. in june 2016, the u.k. held a referendum and voted to leave the eu. the u.k. subsequently indicated that it will initiate the withdrawal process by the end of march 2017. assuming the u.k. initiates the withdrawal process by giving notice that it is withdrawing from the eu, the treaty provides that the u.k. and the eu will negotiate a withdrawal agreement 14 during a maximum two-year period. it is too early to predict what, if any, impact this may have on existing capital requirements and risk management standards for our u.k. entities. the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) is developing a common framework (comframe) for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (iaigs) that contemplates group-wide supervision across national boundaries, including uniform standards for insurer corporate governance and enterprise risk management, a framework for group capital adequacy assessment that accounts for group-wide risks, and the establishment of ongoing supervisory colleges. we do not qualify as an iaig under the current criteria for designating an iaig. however, we monitor the activities of the iais for the potential that comframe could apply to us in the future. the iais has announced that it expects to develop a risk-based global insurance capital standard applicable to iaigs with implementation scheduled to begin in 2019. at this time, we cannot predict what, if any, additional capital requirements, compliance costs, or other requirements this proposed standard might impose on us, if adopted. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources" contained herein in item 7 and note 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. insurance holding company regulation we and our u.s. insurance subsidiaries (excluding captive reinsurers) are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which currently include louisiana, maine, massachusetts, new york, south carolina, and tennessee. these laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including information concerning capital structure, ownership, management, financial condition, and certain intercompany transactions. transactions between an insurer and affiliates in the holding company system generally must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval by the domiciliary insurance regulator. in addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources - cash available from subsidiaries" contained herein in item 7. there are a number of proposals to amend state insurance laws and regulations in ways that could affect us and our insurance subsidiaries. the naic has adopted or amended model laws on holding company regulation that provide for supervision of insurers at the corporate group level. the various proposals to implement group supervision include uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to rbc calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies, including a requirement that the ultimate controlling person of a u.s. insurer submit to the lead state insurance regulator an annual enterprise risk report, which identifies activities, circumstances, or events involving one or more affiliates of an insurer that, if not remedied properly, are likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole. the naic has adopted the corporate governance annual disclosure model act and the corporate governance annual disclosure model regulation, which require u.s. insurers to disclose detailed information regarding their governance practices. the model act and regulation must be adopted by individual state legislatures and insurance regulators in order to be effective in a particular state. at this time, among states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, the model act and regulation are effective only in louisiana. the laws of most states, including the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurance company or its holding company. where these laws apply to us, there can be no effective change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement containing specified information with the appropriate insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval of the proposed change. the usual measure for a presumptive change of control pursuant to these laws is the acquisition of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company, although this presumption is rebuttable. consequently, a person acquiring 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company without the prior approval of the insurance regulators in the state(s) of domicile of the insurance company(ies) sought to be acquired (or whose holding company is sought to be acquired) will be in violation of these laws. such a person may also be subject to one or more of the following actions: (i) injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those shares by the applicable insurance regulators; (ii) prohibition of voting of such shares; and (iii) other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulators. further, many states' insurance laws require that 15 prior notification be given to state insurance regulators of a change in control of a non-domiciled insurance company doing business in the state. these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance regulators to disapprove the change in control; however, they do authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist, such as undue market concentration. any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-notification laws. these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. federal laws and regulations enacted in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank) effected comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the united states. dodd-frank directed various government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, many of which remain to be completed. among other provisions, dodd-frank created a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets, including requirements that certain swaps be executed through a centralized exchange or regulated facility and be cleared through a regulated clearinghouse. it also subjected us and major swap participants to capital and margin (i.e., collateral) requirements, which generally had the effect of increasing the costs of hedging and the credit risk posed by some counterparties. dodd-frank also established the federal insurance office (fio) within the department of the treasury, with powers over most lines of insurance, and the financial stability oversight council (fsoc). the fio is authorized to gather data and information to monitor aspects of the insurance industry, identify issues in the regulation of insurers about insurance matters, and preempt state insurance measures under certain circumstances. although the fio is prohibited from directly regulating the business of insurance, the fio may also recommend enhanced regulations to state regulatory authorities or recommend to the fsoc that it designate an insurer as a "systemically important financial institution" (sifi). an insurer designated as a sifi could be subject to federal reserve supervision and heightened regulatory standards. we have not been designated as a sifi, and at this time we believe it is unlikely that we would be designated as such. we are subject to the laws and regulations generally applicable to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange relating to public reporting and disclosure, accounting and financial reporting, corporate governance, and securities trading. further, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and rules and regulations adopted under this regulation, have increased the requirements for us and other public companies in these and other areas. the usa patriot act of 2001 (patriot act) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. the patriot act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. anti-money laundering laws outside of the united states contain some similar provisions. additionally, other federal laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and regulations issued by the office of foreign asset's controls, as well as the u.k.'s bribery act of 2010, have increased requirements relating to identifying customers, prohibiting transactions with certain organizations or individuals, watching for and reporting suspicious transactions, responding to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, sharing information with other financial institutions, and requiring the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls. we are subject to federal income, employment, excise and other taxes related to both our u.s. and our foreign operations. federal tax laws and regulations are subject to change, and any such change could materially increase our federal taxes and reduce our profitability. we continually monitor federal tax legislative and regulatory developments to understand their potential impact on our profitability. for further discussion of regulation, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. 16 geographic areas operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our unum uk segment was approximately 6 percent of our consolidated operating revenue in 2016 and approximately 7 percent for 2015 and 2014 . as of december 31, 2016 , total assets and total liabilities for our unum uk segment each equaled approximately 5 percent of consolidated assets and liabilities. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency of our unum uk segment will impact our reported operating results. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. see "reporting segments" contained herein in this item 1; "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7; and note 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum uk's operating results. employees at december 31, 2016 , we had approximately 9,400 full-time employees. available information our internet website address is www.unum.com . we make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. executive officers of the registrant our executive officers, who are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by unum group's board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. name age position richard p. mckenney 48 president and chief executive officer and a director timothy g. arnold 54 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life breege a. farrell 57 executive vice president, chief investment officer lisa g. iglesias 51 executive vice president, general counsel christopher j. jerome 55 executive vice president, global services john f. mcgarry 59 executive vice president and chief financial officer peter g. o'donnell 50 president and chief executive officer, unum uk michael q. simonds 43 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us mr. mckenney became president in april 2015 and chief executive officer in may 2015. he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer from august 2009 until april 2015, having joined the company in july 2009. before joining the company, mr. mckenney served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of sun life financial inc., an international financial services company, from february 2007, having joined that company as executive vice president in september 2006. he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of genworth financial, inc., a global financial security company, from may 2004 until august 2006. mr. arnold was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life in january 2015, after having served as executive vice president, president, colonial life from july 2014. he previously served as senior vice president, sales and marketing, colonial life from august 2012, as senior vice president, chief operations officer, colonial life from july 2011, and as senior vice president, integrated underwriting, unum us from may 2010. mr. arnold originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1985. ms. farrell was named executive vice president, chief investment officer in august 2013, after having joined the company as senior vice president and chief investment officer in april 2011. before joining the company, she held a number of executive-level investment positions within the allstate corporation, a personal lines insurer, including as senior managing director of allstate investments, llc and certain affiliated companies from january 2010 to april 2011, and as managing director of these companies from august 2004 to january 2010. 17 ms. iglesias was named executive vice president, general counsel upon joining the company in january 2015. she served as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary of wellcare health plans, inc., a managed care company, from february 2012 to december 2014, having first joined wellcare in february 2010 as vice president, securities and assistant general counsel. prior to that, she served as general counsel and corporate secretary for nordstrom, inc., a fashion specialty retailer, from 2007 to 2008, and as general counsel and secretary of spherion corporation, a recruiting and staffing company, from 1999 to 2007. mr. jerome was named executive vice president, global services in july 2013, after having served as senior vice president, global services from january 2012. he previously served as senior vice president, risk operations from july 2010, as senior vice president, underwriting &amp; service operations, unum us from may 2010, and as senior vice president, group underwriting operations from august 2006. mr. jerome originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1983. mr. mcgarry became executive vice president and chief financial officer in april 2015. he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, closed block operations from august 2013 to april 2015, after having served as executive vice president, individual disability and long-term care closed block operations from september 2012. he previously served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk from july 2010, and as senior vice president, benefits, individual disability, and national client group business, unum us from january 2010. prior to that, he served in various other capacities within unum us, including as senior vice president, benefits operations and risk management from march 2008 to january 2010, and as senior vice president, benefits operations from january 2006 to march 2008. mr. mcgarry originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1986. mr. o'donnell was named president and chief executive officer, unum uk, in september 2012, after having joined the company as unum limited's chief financial officer in 2010. prior to joining unum limited, mr. o'donnell served as director of group finance at prudential plc, an international financial services company, from may 2008 to may 2010. he served as finance director at royal &amp; sunalliance plc, an international financial services company, from may 2005 to may 2008. mr. simonds was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us in july 2013, after having served as senior vice president and chief operating officer, unum us from june 2012. he previously served as senior vice president, growth operations, unum us from july 2010, and as senior vice president and chief marketing officer, unum us from march 2008. mr. simonds originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1994, left the company in 2000 to further his education and to serve as a consultant with mckinsey &amp; company, a global management consulting firm, and rejoined the company in 2003. item 1a. risk factors we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. discussed below are factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases. see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1. sustained periods of low interest rates in the long-term investment market may adversely affect our reported net investment income and the discount rates used in reserving for our insurance products and projecting our pension obligations, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. further declines in interest rates and/or the continuance of the current level of low interest rates and yields on fixed income investments may cause the rates of return on our investment portfolio to decrease more than expected, leading to lower net investment income than assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products. an interest, or discount, rate is used in calculating reserves for our insurance products. we set our reserve discount rate assumptions based on our current and expected future investment yield for assets supporting the reserves, considering current and expected future market conditions. if the discount rate assumed in our reserve calculations is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets will not earn enough investment income to support our future claim payments. in that case, the reserves may eventually be insufficient, resulting in the need to increase our reserves and/or increase our capital contributions to our insurance subsidiaries, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 18 our net periodic benefit costs and the value of our benefit obligations for our pension plans are determined based on a set of economic and demographic assumptions that represent our best estimate of future expected experience. major assumptions used in accounting for these plans include the expected discount (interest) rate and the long-term rate of return on plan assets. we set the discount rate assumption at the measurement date for each of our plans to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality fixed income corporate debt instruments matched against the timing and amounts of projected future benefits. a lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases our costs. our expectations for the future investment returns on plan assets are based on a combination of historical market performance, current market conditions, and future capital market assumptions obtained from external consultants and economists. the actual rate of return on plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period. increases or decreases in long-term interest rates as well as equity market volatility will impact the fair value of our plan assets and may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, "interest rate risk" contained herein in item 7a, and note 9 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. actual experience may differ from our reserve assumptions which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. historical results may not be indicative of future performance due to, among other things, changes in our mix of business, re-pricing of certain lines of business, or any number of economic cyclical effects on our business. reserves, whether calculated under gaap or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. actual experience may differ from our reserve assumptions. there can be no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. life expectancies may continue to increase, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives disability or long-term care benefits and could result in a change in mortality assumptions and an increase in reserves for these and other long-tailed products. adjustments to reserve amounts may also be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors); premium rate increases; persistency; policy benefit offsets, including those for social security and other government-based welfare benefits; and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and notes 1 and 6 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. unfavorable economic conditions may result in lower sales, lower premium growth and persistency, higher claims incidence, and longer claims duration, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, both in the united states, the united kingdom, and to a lesser extent, the broader global financial markets. negative developments in the capital markets and/or the general economy could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in particular, factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses. given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, new product sales may be adversely affected. our premium growth may also be negatively impacted by lower premium growth from existing customers due to lower salary growth and lower growth in the number of employees covered under an existing policy. in addition, during such periods we may experience higher claims incidence, longer claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 19 we and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation. changes in laws and regulations that affect our industry or the customers to whom we sell our products may affect the cost or demand for our products, increase capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and adversely affect our profitability, liquidity, or growth. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the united states and abroad. the primary purpose of insurance regulation is to protect policyholders, not stockholders. to that end, applicable laws establish regulatory authorities, including state insurance departments in the united states and the pra in the united kingdom, with broad administrative powers over many aspects of the insurance business. for example, our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, we and our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. these laws and regulations can be complex and subject to differing interpretations and are regularly re-examined. existing or future laws and regulations, and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. for example, they may restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us, restrict transactions between subsidiaries and/or between us and our subsidiaries, and may require contributions of capital by us to our insurance subsidiaries even if we are otherwise in compliance with stated requirements. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws or regulations could result in restrictions on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which they operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. it is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled and operate. we cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. the naic or state regulators may adopt revisions to the rbc formula, the pra may revise its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, the iais may adopt capital requirements to which we could be subject, or rating agencies may incorporate higher capital thresholds into their quantitative analyses, thus requiring additional capital contributions by us to our insurance subsidiaries. increased financial services regulation, which could include activities undertaken by the naic and regulatory authorities in the u.k. and the eu may impose greater quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and disclosure requirements and may impact the business strategies, capital requirements, and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. the united kingdom's financial ombudsman service, which was established to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses providing financial services, and the fca, which has rule-making, investigative, and enforcement powers to protect consumers, may hamper our ability to do business, which could have a material adverse effect on our u.k. operations. we use affiliated captive reinsurers for the limited purpose of reinsuring risks attributable to specified policies issued or reinsured by our insurance subsidiaries in order to effectively manage risks in connection with certain blocks of our business as well as to enhance our capital efficiency. if we were required to discontinue use of the captive reinsurers or to alter the structure of the captive reinsurance arrangements, our ability to maintain current rbc ratios and/or our capital deployment activities could be adversely affected. changes in u.s. programs such as healthcare reform and financial services sector reform may compete with or diminish the need or demand for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace. the u.s. social security disability insurance program may not be sustainable, which may adversely affect the level of our disability claim payments and reserves. legislative changes related to pension funding requirements could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and our profitability. changes in tax laws and other regulations or interpretations of such laws or regulations could unfavorably impact our corporate taxes. furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could be adversely impacted by our future earnings levels or changes in tax laws. changes in tax laws could also make some of our products less attractive to consumers. we cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be, or whether, if at all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our statutory capital, financial condition, or results of operations. during 2016, the u.k. held a referendum and voted to leave the eu. the u.k. subsequently indicated that it will initiate the withdrawal process by the end of march 2017. assuming the u.k. initiates the withdrawal process by giving notice that it is withdrawing from the eu, the u.k. and the eu will negotiate a withdrawal agreement during a maximum two-year period. we may see some dampening of growth in the u.k. due to the current disruption and uncertainty in the u.k. economy. we may experience volatility in the fair values of our investments in u.k. and eu-based issuers, but we do not expect a material increase in other-than-temporary impairments or defaults, nor do we believe this volatility will impact our ability to hold these 20 investments. the magnitude and longevity of potential negative economic impacts on our growth will depend on the agreements reached by the u.k. and eu as a result of exit negotiations and the resulting response of the u.k. marketplace. there are currently no indications that capital requirements for our u.k. operations will change, but economic conditions may cause volatility in our solvency ratios. our reported consolidated financial results may continue to be unfavorably impacted by the weakening of the british pound sterling relative to preceding periods. dodd-frank directs various government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process that continues to develop. as a result of the regulations implemented thus far, regulations directed at some derivative activities and the implementation of central clearing rules have increased the cost of some hedging activities primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements. we cannot predict the requirements of the remaining regulations that might ultimately be adopted, whether existing requirements will be repealed or changed, or how or whether such regulations will affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition, require us to raise additional capital, or result in a downgrade of our credit ratings. most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by the employee retirement income security act (erisa). changes to erisa enacted by congress or through judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability. the insurance departments in jurisdictions wherein our insurance subsidiaries conduct business may limit our ability to obtain rate increases under guaranteed renewable contracts or could require changes in rates and/or benefits to meet minimum loss ratio requirements which could negatively impact the profitability of our products. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. these actions could result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in our claims handling or other business practices, changes in procedures for the identification and payment to the states of benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, increases to reserving requirements, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, assessments by tax authorities or other governing agencies, fines, and other administrative action, which could injure our reputation, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, and/or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and notes 7 and 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. in addition to interest rate risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. default risk our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer's industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, unforeseen accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer's marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations. our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk. events or developments, such as economic conditions that impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio. events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector. 21 a default results in the recognition of an impairment loss on the investment. a default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us. the probability of credit downgrades and defaults increases when the fixed income markets experience periods of volatility and illiquidity. credit spread risk our exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable u.s. treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads may unfavorably impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of the investment portfolio and may adversely impact liquidity. credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities. valuation risk we report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at fair value. valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, particularly during periods of market disruption, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we evaluate our investment portfolio for impairments. there can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken. additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. any event reducing the value of our securities other than on a temporary basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. market timing and liquidity risk while we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, there may at times be a lack of appropriate investments in the market which can be acquired. in addition, we may, in certain circumstances, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. there may also be a limited market for certain of our investments, such as our private placement fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, and policy loans, which makes them more illiquid. in periods of market volatility or disruption, other of our securities may also experience reduced liquidity. if events occur wherein we need to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment or need to quickly sell securities which are illiquid, market prices may be lower than what we might realize under normal circumstances, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of our investments and derivatives. a cyber attack or other security breach could disrupt our operations, result in the unauthorized disclosure or loss of confidential data, damage our reputation or relationships, and expose us to significant financial and legal liability, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we store confidential policyholder and employee information and other proprietary information on our information technology systems as a part of our normal business operations. although we devote significant resources to maintain security systems and implement measures to protect our information technology systems and the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information retained on them, and to date have not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity, there is no assurance that these systems and measures will be sufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. we have contractual and governance safeguards in place with our third-party outsourcing partners and cloud computing providers to manage security as part of the service they deliver to us, but these measures may not prevent attackers from exploiting weaknesses in their networks to access, misappropriate, alter, or delete our data. threats to our systems or those of third-party providers may originate externally, such as from cyber criminals or other hackers, or internally from within our company, such as from employee error or malfeasance. in some cases, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, we may be unaware of emerging threats and the magnitude of their effects, or we may not become aware of an unauthorized data disclosure 22 incident for some time after it occurs, which could increase our exposure. as we increase the amount of information that we retain and that we share with third parties, our exposure to data security and related cybersecurity risks increases. a successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our information systems could cause serious negative consequences for us, including significant disruption of our operations, the loss or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information retained on those systems, harm to our reputation, decreased levels of customer service or satisfaction, violations of applicable privacy or other laws, and exposure to litigation or enforcement proceedings. while we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides coverage for network security, privacy liability, technology errors and omissions, media liability, first party network business interruption, and electronic restoration (which includes coverage for credit monitoring, notification costs, regulatory expense, and investigative expense), our insurance may not provide adequate loss coverage in all circumstances. the failure of our business recovery and incident management processes to resume our business operations in the event of a natural catastrophe, cyber attack, or other event could adversely affect our profitability, results of operations, or financial condition. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, a cyber attack, cyber security breach or other information technology systems failure, a terrorist attack, or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those problems affect our information technology systems and destroy valuable data. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our employees were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. the failure of our information technology and/or disaster recovery systems for any reason could cause significant interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers' operations and result in the loss, theft, or failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions, legal claims, and increased expenses, and lead to a loss of customers and revenues. competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability. all of our businesses are highly competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, the quality of our customer's experience regarding service and claims management, integrated product choices, enrollment capabilities, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. we compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability. all areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of the group products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market. there is a risk that purchasers of employee benefits products may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us, particularly if industry pricing levels do not align with our view of adequate premium rates. we are operating in a dynamic competitive environment of both traditional and non-traditional competitors, with changes in product offerings, enrollment capabilities, and technology solutions. the level and intensity of competition may also grow due to existing competitors becoming more aggressive, and an increase in merger and acquisition activity which may result in larger competitors with greater financial resources. there are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies and new competitors in the future. see "competition" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. the failure to effectively execute upgrades to or replacements of information technology systems could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we rely heavily on the effective operation of our information technology systems to administer our business. although we believe we have information technology systems which adequately support our business needs, we continually upgrade our existing information technology systems and acquire or develop new systems to keep pace with the rapidly changing business and technology environment. there are risks involved with upgrading or replacing information technology systems, including, but not limited to, data loss, data errors, and disruption to our operations. we seek to monitor and control our exposure to the risks arising out of these activities through our risk control framework which encompasses a variety of reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes, and other mechanisms. 23 a decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may adversely affect our competitive position, our ability to hedge our risks, and our cost of capital or ability to raise capital, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. a downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect our relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. a downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to unum group can be expected to adversely affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise additional capital. if we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our derivatives financial instrument contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts. such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks. see "ratings" contained herein in item 1 and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. there are many events which may harm our reputation, including, but not limited to, those discussed in this item 1a regarding regulatory investigations, legal proceedings, and cyber or other information security incidents. in addition, as an insurance company, we are paid to accept certain risks. those who conduct our business, including executive officers and members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, and to some extent, independent agents and brokers, do so in part by making decisions that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline, maintaining effective claim management and customer service performance, managing our investment portfolio and derivatives trading activities, delivering effective technology solutions, complying with established sales practices, executing our capital management strategy, exiting a line of business and/or pursuing strategic growth initiatives, and other decisions. although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks or unintentionally failing to comply with internal policies and practices such that errors occur, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures will be effective. if our employees and business associates take excessive risks and/or fail to comply with internal policies and practices, the impact of those events may damage our market position and reputation. depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital and/or increase our cost of capital. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and note 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on regulatory matters and legal proceedings. we provide a broad array of disability, long-term care, group life, and voluntary insurance products that are affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. disability insurance disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence and recoveries for disability insurance. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses. claim durations may be extended by medical improvements which could extend life expectancies. the relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. the pricing 24 actions available in the individual disability market differ among product classes. our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business. guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market. long-term care insurance long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products. this creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval by our states of domicile and may also be subject to approval by jurisdictions in which our policyholders reside. the rate approval process can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all, and the rate increases ultimately approved may be favorable or unfavorable relative to assumptions used to establish our reserves. we monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends. changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves. mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives long-term care benefits and may subject more policyholders to advanced aging and an associated increase in claims incidence. medical advances may continue to have an impact on claim incidence and duration, both favorable and unfavorable. due to the long duration of the product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows are difficult to match to those of our maturing liabilities. sustained periods of low or declining interest rates could result in increases in reserves and adversely affect our results of operations. group life insurance group life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, and pandemic health events, which may also affect the cost of and availability of reinsurance coverage. voluntary products voluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics. our voluntary life insurance products generally include interest sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate. it is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate. the non-life contracts are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1 and "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. our risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. we have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, and operations risks, which ultimately impact our reputational risk. however, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for monitoring and managing risk may not fully predict or mitigate future exposures. see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further information about our risk management program. 25 litigation and contingencies are common in our businesses and may result in financial losses and/or harm to our reputation. we are, and in the future may be, defendants in a number of litigation matters, and the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. an estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings. as part of our normal operations in managing claims, we are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. we expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and note 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings. reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. as part of our overall risk management and capital management strategies, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and may impact the level of capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business, result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue, and increase our capital requirements. the collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the effectiveness of our hedging programs may be affected by changes in the economic environment, changes in interest rates, capital market volatility, non-performance by our counterparties, changes in the level of required collateral, or regulation, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we use derivative financial instruments to help us manage certain risks related to our business operations, primarily interest rate risk, risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities, and foreign currency risk. factors associated with derivative financial instruments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. ineffectiveness of our hedges due to changes in expected future events, such as the risk created by uncertainty in the economic environment or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance by our counterparties, many of which are financial institutions. non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind hedges, and we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged. under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral, which may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral. changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute hedging strategies due to the increased economic cost of derivatives, primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements. 26 changes in accounting standards may materially affect our financial statements. our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, in both the united states and the united kingdom, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the u.s. financial accounting standards board (fasb), the u.k. accounting standards board (asb), and the naic. accounting standards issued by the fasb and asb may be influenced by the international accounting standards board (iasb). these authoritative bodies have several ongoing projects regarding accounting standards that will likely be issued in the near future. future accounting standards we adopt will change current accounting and disclosure requirements applicable to our financial statements. such changes may have a material effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition. currency translation could materially impact our reported operating results. the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results. our reported consolidated financial results may continue to be unfavorably impacted by the weakening of the british pound sterling. however, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert pounds into dollars. as a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. our ability to finance our ongoing operations may not always be possible solely from internal sources of capital and liquidity. if we need to seek external capital, there is the risk that adverse market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital or our cost of capital. a change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations. deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in this item 1a may impose higher capital or reserve requirements on our insurance subsidiaries, increase collateral requirements for certain of our derivatives transactions, and/or implement other requirements which could unfavorably affect our liquidity. without sufficient liquidity, our ability to maintain and grow our operations would be limited. if our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us. if our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus is considered important not only by us but by insurance regulatory authorities in the u.s., the pra in the u.k., and the rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary's ability to distribute funds to our holding companies. obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be challenging in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty. the markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. the availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock in unum group. we rely on our credit facility as a potential source of liquidity. our right to borrow funds under this facility is subject to financial covenants, negative covenants, and events of default. our ability to borrow under this facility is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facility or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments would restrict our ability to access this facility when needed, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "liquidity and capital resources" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 8 and 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. 27 as a holding company, unum group depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it so that it can meet its obligations and pay dividends. unum group is a holding company for insurance and other subsidiaries and has no significant operations of its own. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance laws and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds or other assets to affiliates, including to unum group. the level of earnings and capital in our subsidiaries, as well as business conditions and rating agency considerations, could impact our insurance and other subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to unum group, which could impair our ability to pay dividends to unum group's common stockholders, meet our debt and other payment obligations, and/or repurchase shares of unum group's common stock. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1,"liquidity and capital resources" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and note 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. we have assets which may not be fully recoverable or realizable, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. if our business does not perform well or as initially anticipated in our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment loss on intangible assets or long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset. we have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (dac), value of business acquired (voba), and goodwill. dac and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for dac and voba is performed on an annual basis. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either dac and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary, we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate and information technology software, also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we may be unable to recover the carrying amount. we assess our deferred tax assets to determine if they are realizable. factors in our determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate future taxable income. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established with a corresponding charge to net income. charges such as accelerated amortization, impairment losses, or the establishment of valuation allowances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 7, and 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of certain assets in our investment portfolio, disrupt our operations, or result in higher claim costs. the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military actions, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in the global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, business disruption, and reduced economic activity. some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad. in addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. beyond obtaining insurance 28 coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events away from us. we purchase reinsurance protection against catastrophic disaster events, including terrorism. the continued threat of terrorism could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. see "reinsurance" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 85 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to various market risk exposures, including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding our risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating our overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a, "investments" contained herein in item 7, and notes 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate changes results from our holdings of financial instruments such as fixed rate investments, derivatives, and interest sensitive liabilities. fixed rate investments include fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, and short-term investments. fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, public utility bonds, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and redeemable preferred stock, all of which are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations. certain of our financial instruments, fixed maturity securities and derivatives, are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of these financial instruments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. a rise in interest rates may decrease the net unrealized gain related to these financial instruments, but may improve our ability to earn higher rates of return on new purchases of fixed maturity securities. conversely, a decline in interest rates may increase the net unrealized gain, but new securities may be purchased at lower rates of return. although changes in fair value of fixed maturity securities and derivatives due to changes in interest rates may impact amounts reported in our consolidated balance sheets, these changes will not cause an economic gain or loss unless we sell investments, terminate derivative positions, determine that an investment is other than temporarily impaired, or determine that a derivative instrument is no longer an effective hedge. other fixed rate investments, such as mortgage loans and policy loans, are carried at amortized cost and unpaid balances, respectively, rather than fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. these investments may have fair values substantially higher or lower than the carrying values reflected in our balance sheets. a change in interest rates could impact our financial position if we sold our mortgage loan investments at times of low market value. a change in interest rates would not impact our financial position at repayment of policy loans, as ultimately the cash surrender values or death benefits would be reduced for the carrying value of any outstanding policy loans. carrying amounts for short-term investments approximate fair value, and we believe we have minimal interest rate risk exposure from these investments. 85 we believe that the risk of being forced to liquidate investments or terminate derivative positions is minimal, primarily due to the level of capital at our insurance subsidiaries, the level of cash and marketable securities at our holding companies, and our investment strategy which we believe provides for adequate cash flows to meet the funding requirements of our business. we may in certain circumstances, however, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. although our policy benefits are primarily in the form of claim payments and we therefore have minimal exposure to the policy withdrawal risk associated with deposit products such as individual life policies or annuities, the fair values of liabilities under all insurance contracts are taken into consideration in our overall management of interest rate risk, which minimizes exposure to changing interest rates through the matching of investment cash flows with amounts due under insurance contracts. changes in interest rates and individuals' behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. we actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to limit interest rate risk. due to the long duration of our long-term care product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. we model and test asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios enables us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to limit the risk of disadvantageous outcomes. we use this analysis in determining hedging strategies and utilizing derivative financial instruments. we use current and forward interest rate swaps, options on forward interest rate swaps, and forward treasury locks to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. debt is not carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. if we modify or replace existing debt instruments at current market rates, we may incur a gain or loss on the transaction. we believe our debt-related risk to changes in interest rates is relatively minimal. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. we measure our financial instruments' market risk related to changes in interest rates using a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates potential changes in fair values as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 based on a hypothetical immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year-end levels. the selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. the hypothetical potential changes in fair value of our financial instruments at december 31, 2016 and 2015 are shown as follows: december 31, 2016 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 44,217.3 $ 40,646.2 $ (3,571.1 ) mortgage loans 2,122.2 2,004.8 (117.4 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 358.1 331.5 (26.6 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and deferred acquisition costs (2) $ (3,970.8 ) $ (1,898.3 ) $ 2,072.5 long-term debt (3,175.8 ) (2,985.8 ) 190.0 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,042.0 $ (20.0 ) $ (43.0 ) $ (23.0 ) forwards 10.0 (0.1 ) 0.3 0.4 embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (46.7 ) (51.3 ) (4.6 ) 86 december 31, 2015 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 43,354.4 $ 39,917.3 $ (3,437.1 ) mortgage loans 2,013.9 1,914.1 (99.8 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 347.9 321.5 (26.4 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and deferred acquisition costs (2) $ (3,344.6 ) $ (1,038.5 ) $ 2,306.1 short-term debt (366.2 ) (363.6 ) 2.6 long-term debt (2,645.9 ) (2,472.4 ) 173.5 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,470.3 $ (0.4 ) $ (7.2 ) $ (6.8 ) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (87.6 ) (88.1 ) (0.5 ) (1) these financial instruments are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates may affect the fair value at which the item is reported in our consolidated balance sheets. the corresponding offsetting change is reported in other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes, except for changes in the fair value of derivatives accounted for as fair value hedges or derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, the offset of which is reported as a component of net realized investment gain or loss. (2) the adjustment to reserves and deferred acquisition costs for unrealized investment gains and losses reflects the adjustments to policyholder liabilities and deferred acquisition costs that would be necessary if the unrealized investment gains and losses related to the fixed maturity securities and derivatives had been realized. changes in this adjustment are also reported as a component of other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities was estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values shown in the chart above for all other items were determined using discounted cash flow analyses. because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. we remain in an environment of low interest rates, which continues to place pressure on our profit margins as we invest cash flows to support our businesses. we estimate that we will have approximately $2.7 billion of investable cash flows in 2017. assuming interest rates and credit spreads remain constant throughout 2018 at the january 2017 market levels, our net investment income would decrease by approximately $0.5 million in 2017 and $4.8 million in 2018 as a result of the investment of cash flows at levels below our current expectations. this interest rate scenario does not give consideration to the effect of other factors which could impact these results, such as changes in the bond market and changes in hedging strategies and positions, nor does it consider the potential change to our discount rate reserve assumptions and any mitigating factors such as pricing adjustments. in addition, a continued low or declining interest rate environment may also result in an increase in the net periodic benefit costs for our pension plans, but we do not believe it would materially affect net income in 2017 or 2018. foreign currency risk the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. we are exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in the british pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rates primarily as they relate to the translation of the financial results of our u.k. operations. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results. we do not hedge against the possible impact of this risk. because we do not actually convert pounds into dollars except for a limited number of transactions, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue and not a reflection of operations or profitability in our u.k. operations. 87 assuming the pound to dollar exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2016 and 2015 levels, stockholders' equity as reported in u.s. dollars would have been lower by approximately $90 million and $100 million, respectively. assuming the pound to dollar average exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the actual average exchange rates for 2016 and 2015 , before-tax operating income, as reported in u.s. dollars, would have decreased approximately $13 million and $15 million, respectively. dividends paid by unum limited are generally held at our u.k. finance subsidiary or our u.k. holding company. if these funds are repatriated to our u.s. holding company, we would at that time be subject to foreign currency risk as the value of the dividend, when converted into u.s. dollars, would be dependent upon the foreign exchange rate at the time of conversion. we are also exposed to foreign currency risk related to certain foreign investment securities denominated in local currencies. we use foreign currency interest rate swaps to hedge or minimize the foreign exchange risk associated with these instruments. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "consolidated operating results" and "unum uk segment" contained herein in item 7 for further information concerning foreign currency translation. risk management effectively taking and managing risks is essential to the success of our company. to facilitate this effort, we have a formal enterprise risk management (erm) program, with a framework comprising the following key components: risk culture and governance risk appetite policy risk identification and prioritization risk and capital modeling risk management activities risk reporting our erm framework is the ongoing system of people, processes, and tools across our company under which we intend to function consistently and collectively to identify and assess risks and opportunities, to manage all material risks within our risk appetite, and to contribute to strategic decision making. with the goal of maximizing shareholder value, the primary objectives of our erm framework are to support unum group in meeting its operational and financial objectives, maintaining liquidity, optimizing capital, and protecting franchise value. risk culture and governance we employ a decentralized risk management model under which risk-based decisions are made daily on a local level. to achieve long-term success, we believe risk management must be the responsibility of all employees. the individual and collective decisions of our employees play a key role in successfully managing our overall risk profile. we strive for a culture of integrity, commitment, and accountability and we believe these values allow our employees to feel comfortable identifying issues as well as taking ownership for addressing potential problems. our culture is reinforced by our system of risk governance. we employ a multi-layered risk control system. our three lines of defense model is depicted below. 1st line: own and manage 2nd line: oversee 3rd line: independent assurance business processes and procedures employed throughout the company through which management assumes and monitors significant risks management committees chartered with oversight of activities within the 1st and 2nd lines of defense, mitigation of substantial exposures, and management of emerging risks independent review of erm framework and risk mitigation business units are primarily responsible for managing their principal risks. our risk committees and other management committees serve risk and control functions responsible for providing risk oversight, or the second line of risk control. our internal audit team provides periodic independent reviews and assurance activities serving as our third line of risk control. 88 in addition, our board has an active role, as a whole and through its committees, in overseeing management of our risks. the board is responsible for managing strategic risk and regularly reviews information regarding our capital, liquidity, and operations, as well as the risks associated with each. the risk and finance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of our risk management process, including financial risk, operational risk, and any other risk not specifically assigned to another board committee. it also is responsible for oversight of risks associated with investments, capital and financing plans and activities, and related financial matters, including matters pertaining to our closed block segment. the audit committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to financial reporting risk and certain operational risks. the human capital committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to our compensation plans and programs. the regulatory compliance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks related to regulatory, compliance, policy, and legal matters, both current and emerging, and whether of a local, state, federal, or international nature. while each committee is responsible for evaluating certain risks and overseeing the management of such risks, the entire board is regularly informed through committee reports about such risks in addition to the risk information it receives directly. our executive risk management committee is responsible for overseeing our enterprise-wide risk management program. the chief risk officer, who is a member of the executive risk management committee, has primary responsibility for our erm program and is supported by corporate risk committees and by the risk committees of our operating segments. operating segment risk committees for unum us, unum uk, colonial life, and closed block are responsible for oversight of risks specific to their businesses. these committees are responsible for identifying, measuring, reporting, and managing insurance and operational risks within their respective areas, consistent with enterprise risk management guidance. corporate risk committees and other management committees oversee the operational, global technology services, investment, and capital management risks on a corporate level. risk appetite policy our risk appetite policy describes the types of risks we are willing to take, as well as the amount of enterprise risk exposure we deem acceptable in pursuit of our goals, with an objective of clearly defining boundaries for our risk-taking activities. the starting point of our philosophy and approach to our erm strategy is our corporate strategy. in contrast to many multi-line peer companies, we do not offer retirement savings, traditional medical benefits, or property and casualty insurance. our corporate strategy is focused on providing group, individual, and voluntary benefits, either as stand-alone products or combined with other coverages, that create comprehensive benefits solutions for employers. we have market leadership positions in the product lines we offer and believe this combination of focused expertise and experience is a competitive advantage and forms the foundation of our approach to risk management. we believe our sound and consistent business practices, strong internal compliance program, and comprehensive risk management strategy enable us to operate efficiently and to identify and address potential areas of risk in our business. we take and manage risks to achieve our business and strategic objectives, and our risk appetite statement sets boundaries for risk-taking activities that link earnings, capital, and operational processes, as well as summarizes our most material risk limits and controls. we monitor our risk profile against our established risk tolerance and limits. risks falling outside our risk tolerance and limits are reported to the applicable governance group, where decisions are made pertaining to acceptance of the risk or implementation of remediation plans or corrective actions as deemed appropriate by that governance group. risk identification and prioritization risk identification and prioritization is an ongoing process, whereby we identify and assess our risk positions and exposures, including notable risk events. additionally, we identify emerging risks and analyze how material future risks might affect us. knowing the potential risks we face allows us to monitor and manage their potential effects including adjusting our strategies as appropriate and holding capital levels which provide financial flexibility. risk and other management committees have primary responsibility for identifying and prioritizing risks within their respective areas. we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. for additional information on certain risks that may adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1 and "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. 89 risk and capital modeling we assess material risks, including how they affect us and how individual risks interrelate, to provide valuable information to management in order that they may effectively manage our risks. we use qualitative and quantitative approaches to assess existing and emerging risks and to develop mitigating strategies to limit our exposure to both. we utilize stress testing and scenario analysis for risk management and to shape our business, financial, and strategic planning activities. both are key components of our risk appetite policy and play an important role in monitoring, assessing, managing, and mitigating our primary risk exposures. in particular, stress testing of our capital and liquidity management strategies enables us to identify areas of high exposure, assess mitigating actions, develop contingency plans, and guide decisions around our target capital and liquidity levels. for example, we periodically perform stress tests on certain categories of assets or liabilities to support development of capital and liquidity risk contingency plans. these tests help ensure that we have a buffer to support our operations in uncertain times and financial flexibility to respond to market opportunities. stress testing is also central to reserve adequacy testing, cash flow testing, and asset and liability management. in addition, we aim to constantly improve our capital modeling techniques and methodologies that are used to determine a level of capital that is commensurate with our risk profile and to ensure compliance with evolving regulatory and rating agency requirements. our capital modeling reflects appropriate aggregation of risks and diversification benefits resulting from our mix of products and business units. our internal capital modeling and allocation aids us in making significant business decisions including strategic planning, capital management, risk limit determination, reinsurance purchases, hedging activities, asset allocation, pricing, and corporate development. risk management activities we accept and manage strategic, credit, and insurance risks in accordance with our corporate strategy, investment policy, and annual business plans. the following fundamental principles are embedded in our risk management efforts across our company. we believe in the benefits of specialization and a focused business strategy. we seek profitable risk-taking in areas where we have established risk management skills and capabilities. we seek to manage our exposure to insurance risk through a combination of prudent underwriting with effective risk selection, maintaining pricing discipline, sound reserving practices, claims operational effectiveness, and selective use of reinsurance. detailed underwriting guidelines and claim policies are tools used to manage our insurance risk exposure. we also monitor exposures against internally prescribed limits, and we diversify to reduce potential concentration risk and volatility. we maintain a detailed set of investment policies and guidelines, including fundamental credit analysis, that are used to manage our credit risk exposure and diversify our risks across asset classes and issuers. finally, we foster a culture that embeds our corporate values and our code of conduct in our daily operations and preserves our reputation with customers and other key stakeholders. we monitor a composite set of operational risk metrics that measure operating effectiveness from the customer perspective. risk reporting regular internal and external risk reporting is an integral part of our erm framework. internally, erm reports are a standard part of our quarterly senior management and board meetings. the reports summarize our existing and emerging risk exposures, as well as report against the tolerances and limits defined by our risk appetite policy. externally, we are subject to a number of regulatory and rating agency risk examinations, and risk reports are often included. annually, we file our own risk and solvency assessment (orsa) summary report with the applicable insurance regulators for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries. this report provides strong evidence of the strengths of our erm framework, measurement approaches, key assumptions utilized in assessing our risks, and prospective solvency assessments under both normal and stressed conditions. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 for additional information regarding the orsa. 90risk factors 18 competition there is significant competition among insurance companies for the types of products we sell. we are operating in a dynamic competitive environment of both traditional and non-traditional competitors, with changes in product offerings, enrollment services, and technology solutions. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, quality of the customer experience regarding service and claims management, integrated product choices, enrollment capabilities, financial strength ratings, and claims-paying ratings. in the individual and group disability markets, we compete in the united 11 states with a number of major companies and regionally with other companies offering specialty products. our principal competitors for our other products, including group life and the product offerings sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction, include the largest insurance companies in the united states. some of these companies have more competitive pricing or have higher claims-paying ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. in the united kingdom, we compete for the individual and group products we sell with a mix of large internationally recognized providers and strong local carriers. we have observed some of these providers aggressively trying to maintain or grow market share in a difficult economic environment, characterized by very low interest rates and expense pressures on employers and individuals. we believe the need for the types of products we offer is significant. in both the united states and the united kingdom, individuals and families often live paycheck to paycheck with a considerable chance of being out of work. pressure is also mounting on governments as to the sustainability of public assistance. based on current penetration levels, we believe there is substantial upside growth potential. all areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of the group products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market. there is a risk that purchasers of employee benefits products may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us. the effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. we must attract and retain independent agents and brokers to actively market our products. strong competition exists among insurers for agents and brokers. we compete with other insurers for sales agents and brokers primarily on the basis of our product offerings, financial strength, support services, and compensation. sales of our products could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and brokers. for further discussion, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. regulation we and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive and comprehensive supervision and regulation both in the united states and in the united kingdom. the laws and regulations with which we must comply are complex and subject to change. new or existing laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. as a result of the financial market and economic challenges in recent years, regulation and the cost of compliance with regulation has continued to increase. insurance regulation and oversight our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and oversight by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they do business and by the u.s. department of labor (dol) on a national basis, primarily for the protection of policyholders. state insurance regulators in the u.s. generally have broad powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business, including the power to: license and examine insurance companies; regulate and supervise sales practices and market conduct; license agents and brokers; approve policy forms; approve premium rates and subsequent increases thereon for certain insurance products; establish reserve requirements and solvency standards; place limitations on shareholder dividends; prescribe the form and content of required financial statements and reports; regulate the types and amounts of permitted investments; and regulate reinsurance transactions. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are examined periodically by their states of domicile and by other states in which they are licensed to conduct business. the domestic examinations have traditionally emphasized financial matters from the perspective of protection of policyholders, but they can and have covered other subjects that an examining state may be interested in reviewing, such as market conduct issues. examinations in other states more typically focus on market conduct, such as a review of sales practices, including the content and use of advertising materials and the licensing and appointing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, and customer service practices, and identification and handling of unclaimed property to determine compliance with state laws. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessments by state insurance guaranty associations to cover the proportional cost of insolvent or failed insurers. the dol enforces a comprehensive federal statute which regulates claims paying fiduciary responsibilities and reporting and disclosure requirements for most employee benefit plans. our u.k. insurance subsidiary, unum limited, is subject to dual regulation by the prudential regulation authority (pra) and the financial conduct authority (fca). the pra oversees the financial health and stability of financial services firms and is 12 responsible for the prudential regulation and day-to-day supervision of insurance companies. the fca seeks to protect consumers and oversees financial services products and practices, including those governing insurance companies in the u.k. capital requirements risk based capital (rbc) standards for u.s. life insurance companies are prescribed by the national association of insurance commissioners (naic). the domiciliary states of our u.s. insurance subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the naic rbc model act, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers. the basis of the system is a risk-based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer's business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. the life and health rbc formula is designed to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks. the formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. the formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers generally. the tax cuts and jobs act, which is further discussed herein in "federal laws and regulations" in this item 1, will have an impact on certain calculations within naic rbc formulas that use after-tax factors to calculate required capital. the naic is currently deliberating on potential revisions to existing calculations to reflect the recent changes to the u.s. corporate tax rate and these revisions will not take effect until after 2017. the naic has also issued a proposal to implement a new and more granular rbc structure for fixed income asset capital charges. the proposed structure will expand the fixed income asset designations from six to 20 categories and will revise factor values. we do not anticipate that the new structure related to fixed income assets will be effective before 2019. we are continuing to monitor the naic's activities on both of these issues. the naic continues to review the state-based solvency regulation framework to identify opportunities to respond to national and international insurance regulatory and solvency developments. the topics of its review include capital requirements, governance and risk management, statutory accounting and financial reporting, and reinsurance. this ongoing review will likely result in significant changes to u.s. insurance regulation and solvency standards, including those for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries. one of the outcomes of the naic's review was the adoption of the naic risk management and own risk and solvency assessment (orsa) model act which, following enactment at the state level, requires insurers to provide, at least annually, a group-level perspective on the risks of the current and future business plans and the sufficiency of capital to support those risks. all states where our traditional u.s. insurance subsidiaries are domiciled have enacted orsa requirements, and we file an orsa summary report annually with the applicable insurance regulators. during 2016, the naic established a working group charged with developing a group capital calculation that can be used by regulators as a baseline quantitative measure in assessing the risks and financial position of insurance groups. the initial recommendation for calculation is an rbc aggregation approach that would utilize existing regulatory calculations for legal entities within the group. items still under development include the scope of the group of legal entities that would be subject to the calculation as well as factors to be used for non-insurance entities and non-u.s. insurance entities within the group. it is too early to predict what, if any, impact this will have on our capital requirements. the naic has adopted a valuation manual containing a principles-based approach to life insurance company reserves. the effective date to begin a three-year implementation period was january 2017 and will apply only to new business. there will be no material impact on our statutory reserves. the naic established a subgroup to study the insurance industry's use of captive reinsurers and special purpose vehicles to transfer insurance risk and is considering ways to promote uniformity in both the approval and supervision of such reinsurers. the naic continues to study this issue and most recently adopted a proposal to subject certain captive reinsurers and special purpose vehicles to the same capital requirements as traditional insurers. as the naic continues to examine the issue, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of their work. although we believe it to be unlikely, a potential outcome of the naic study is that companies could be prohibited from using captive reinsurers. no changes in the use or regulation of captive reinsurers have been proposed by the naic, and we are unable to predict the extent of any changes that might be made. accordingly, we expect to continue our strategy of using captive reinsurers to manage risks and enhance capital efficiency while monitoring the naic's study and proposed changes in regulations. see "reinsurance" contained herein in this item 1 for further discussion. the pra has statutory requirements, including capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and minimum solvency margins, to which unum limited must adhere. as of january 1, 2016, solvency ii, a european union (eu) directive that prescribes new capital requirements and risk management standards that are the result of a fundamental review of the capital adequacy 13 standards for the european insurance industry, replaced the previous capital requirements for unum limited. our european holding company is also subject to the solvency ii requirements relevant to insurance holding companies, while its subsidiaries (the unum european economic area (eea) group), which includes unum limited, are subject to group supervision under solvency ii. the unum eea group received approval from the pra to use its own internal model for calculating regulatory capital and also received approval for certain associated regulatory permissions including transitional relief as the solvency ii capital regime is implemented. as a result, there was no material change to capital requirements or to solvency ratios for the unum eea group. in june 2016, the u.k. held a referendum and voted to leave the eu. the u.k. subsequently invoked article 50 of the treaty on the european union and is due to leave the eu on march 29, 2019. although there are currently no indications that capital requirements for our u.k. operations will change, it is too early to predict what, if any, impact this may have on existing capital requirements and risk management standards for our u.k. entities, but economic conditions may cause volatility in our solvency ratios. the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) is developing a common framework (comframe) for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (iaigs) that contemplates group-wide supervision across national boundaries, including uniform standards for insurer corporate governance and enterprise risk management, a framework for group capital adequacy assessment that accounts for group-wide risks, and the establishment of ongoing supervisory colleges. we do not qualify as an iaig under the current criteria for designating an iaig. however, we monitor the activities of the iais for the potential that comframe could apply to us in the future. the iais expects to implement an insurance capital standard in the form of confidential reporting to supervisory colleges by the end of 2019. at this time, we cannot predict what, if any, additional capital requirements, compliance costs, or other requirements this proposed standard might impose on us, if adopted. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources" contained herein in item 7 and note 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. insurance holding company regulation we and our u.s. insurance subsidiaries (excluding captive reinsurers) are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which currently include louisiana, maine, massachusetts, new york, south carolina, and tennessee. these laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including information concerning capital structure, ownership, management, financial condition, and certain intercompany transactions. transactions between an insurer and affiliates in the holding company system generally must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval by the domiciliary insurance regulator. in addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources - cash available from subsidiaries" contained herein in item 7. there are a number of proposals to amend state insurance laws and regulations in ways that could affect us and our insurance subsidiaries. the naic has adopted or amended model laws on holding company regulation that provide for supervision of insurers at the corporate group level. the various proposals to implement group supervision include uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to rbc calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies, including a requirement that the ultimate controlling person of a u.s. insurer submit to the lead state insurance regulator an annual enterprise risk report, which identifies activities, circumstances, or events involving one or more affiliates of an insurer that, if not remedied properly, are likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole. the naic has adopted the corporate governance annual disclosure model act and the corporate governance annual disclosure model regulation, which require u.s. insurers to disclose detailed information regarding their governance practices. the model act and regulation must be adopted by individual state legislatures and insurance regulators in order to be effective in a particular state. at this time, among the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, the model act and regulation are effective only in louisiana and maine. the laws of most states, including the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurance company or its holding company. where these laws apply to us, there can be no effective change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries unless the 14 person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement containing specified information with the appropriate insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval of the proposed change. the usual measure for a presumptive change of control pursuant to these laws is the acquisition of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company, although this presumption is rebuttable. consequently, a person acquiring 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company without the prior approval of the insurance regulators in the state(s) of domicile of the insurance company(ies) sought to be acquired (or whose holding company is sought to be acquired) will be in violation of these laws. such a person may also be subject to one or more of the following actions: (i) injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those shares by the applicable insurance regulators; (ii) prohibition of voting of such shares; and (iii) other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulators. further, many states' insurance laws require that prior notification be given to state insurance regulators of a change in control of a non-domiciled insurance company doing business in the state. these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance regulators to disapprove the change in control; however, they do authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist, such as undue market concentration. any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-notification laws. these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. federal laws and regulations enacted in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank) effected comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the united states. dodd-frank directed various government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, many of which remain to be completed. among other provisions, dodd-frank created a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets, including requirements that certain swaps be executed through a centralized exchange or regulated facility and be cleared through a regulated clearinghouse. it also subjected us and major swap participants to capital and margin (i.e., collateral) requirements, which generally had the effect of increasing the costs of hedging and the credit risk posed by some counterparties. dodd-frank also established the federal insurance office (fio) within the department of the treasury, with powers over most lines of insurance, and the financial stability oversight council (fsoc). the fio is authorized to gather data and information to monitor aspects of the insurance industry, identify issues in the regulation of insurers about insurance matters, and preempt state insurance measures under certain circumstances. although the fio is prohibited from directly regulating the business of insurance, the fio may also recommend enhanced regulations to state regulatory authorities or recommend to the fsoc that it designate an insurer as a "systemically important financial institution" (sifi). an insurer designated as a sifi could be subject to federal reserve supervision and heightened regulatory standards. we have not been designated as a sifi, and at this time we believe it is unlikely that we would be designated as such. we continue to monitor the political, legislative and regulatory environment, where possible amendments to various provisions of dodd-frank are under discussion. we are subject to the laws and regulations generally applicable to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange relating to public reporting and disclosure, accounting and financial reporting, corporate governance, and securities trading. further, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and rules and regulations adopted under this regulation, have increased the requirements for us and other public companies in these and other areas. the usa patriot act of 2001 (patriot act) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. the patriot act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. anti-money laundering laws outside of the united states contain some similar provisions. additionally, other federal laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and regulations issued by the office of foreign asset's controls, as well as the u.k.'s bribery act of 2010, have increased requirements relating to identifying customers, prohibiting transactions with certain organizations or individuals, watching for and reporting suspicious transactions, responding to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, sharing information with other financial institutions, and requiring the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls. 15 we are subject to federal income, employment, excise and other taxes related to both our u.s. and our foreign operations. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. federal government enacted a tax bill, h.r.1, an act to provide reconciliation pursuant to titles ii and v of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018, more commonly known as the tax cuts and jobs act (tcja). the key provisions of the tcja relevant to us are as follows: establishes a corporate income tax rate of 21 percent; creates a territorial tax system rather than a worldwide system, which will generally allow companies to repatriate future foreign source earnings without incurring additional u.s. taxes by providing a 100 percent exemption for the foreign source portion of dividends from certain foreign subsidiaries; subjects undistributed and previously untaxed foreign earnings and profits to a one-time transition tax also referred to as a deemed repatriation toll charge; creates a u.s. shareholder tax on certain foreign subsidiary income above a routine equity return on tangible depreciable business assets (global intangible low-taxed income); decreases tax-deductible life and property and casualty insurance reserves; increases the amount and amortization period of acquisition costs capitalized for tax purposes; reduces the maximum deduction for net operating loss (nol) carryforwards arising in companies other than non-life insurance companies in tax years beginning after 2017 to a percentage of the taxpayer's taxable income. it also allows any nols generated in tax years beginning after december 31, 2017 to be carried forward indefinitely and repeals carrybacks. nol provisions for non-life insurance companies remain unchanged from current law; allows businesses to immediately write off the cost of new investments in certain qualified depreciable assets made after september 27, 2017 subject to phase downs starting in 2023; eliminates or reduces certain deductions (including deductions for certain compensation arrangements, certain payments made to governments for violations of law and certain legal settlements), exclusions and credits and adds other provisions that broaden the tax base; and creates a new base erosion anti-abuse tax (beat) that subjects certain payments made by a u.s. company to a related foreign company to additional taxes. see "executive summary" and "liquidity and capital resources" contained herein in item 7 and notes 7 and 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for discussion of the impact to our financial position and results of operations as a result of these changes. federal tax laws and regulations are subject to change, and any such change could materially impact our federal taxes and reduce profitability as well as capital levels in our insurance subsidiaries. we continually monitor federal tax legislative and regulatory developments to understand their potential impact on our profitability. for further discussion of regulation, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. geographic areas adjusted operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our unum uk segment was approximately 6 percent of our consolidated adjusted operating revenue in 2017 and 2016 and 7 percent for 2015 . as of december 31, 2017 , total assets and total liabilities for our unum uk segment each equaled approximately 5 percent of consolidated assets and liabilities. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency of our unum uk segment will impact our reported operating results. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. see "reporting segments" contained herein in this item 1; "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7; and note 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum uk's operating results. employees at december 31, 2017 , we had approximately 9,400 full-time employees. 16 available information our internet website address is www.unum.com . we make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. executive officers of the registrant our executive officers, who are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by unum group's board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. name age position richard p. mckenney 49 president and chief executive officer and a director timothy g. arnold 55 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life breege a. farrell 58 executive vice president, chief investment officer lisa g. iglesias 52 executive vice president, general counsel christopher j. jerome 56 executive vice president, global services john f. mcgarry 60 executive vice president and chief financial officer peter g. o'donnell 51 president and chief executive officer, unum uk michael q. simonds 44 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us mr. mckenney became president in april 2015 and chief executive officer in may 2015. he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer from august 2009 until april 2015, having joined the company in july 2009. before joining the company, mr. mckenney served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of sun life financial inc., an international financial services company, from february 2007, having joined that company as executive vice president in september 2006. he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of genworth financial, inc., a global financial security company, from may 2004 until august 2006. mr. arnold was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life in january 2015, after having served as executive vice president, president, colonial life from july 2014. he previously served as senior vice president, sales and marketing, colonial life from august 2012, as senior vice president, chief operations officer, colonial life from july 2011, and as senior vice president, integrated underwriting, unum us from may 2010. mr. arnold originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1985. ms. farrell was named executive vice president, chief investment officer in august 2013, after having joined the company as senior vice president and chief investment officer in april 2011. before joining the company, she held a number of executive-level investment positions within the allstate corporation, a personal lines insurer, including as senior managing director of allstate investments, llc and certain affiliated companies from january 2010 to april 2011, and as managing director of these companies from august 2004 to january 2010. ms. iglesias was named executive vice president, general counsel upon joining the company in january 2015. she served as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary of wellcare health plans, inc., a managed care company, from february 2012 to december 2014, having first joined wellcare in february 2010 as vice president, securities and assistant general counsel. prior to that, she served as general counsel and corporate secretary for nordstrom, inc., a fashion specialty retailer, from 2007 to 2008, and as general counsel and secretary of spherion corporation, a recruiting and staffing company, from 1999 to 2007. mr. jerome was named executive vice president, global services in july 2013, after having served as senior vice president, global services from january 2012. he previously served as senior vice president, risk operations from july 2010, as senior vice president, underwriting &amp; service operations, unum us from may 2010, and as senior vice president, group underwriting operations from august 2006. mr. jerome originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1983. mr. jerome has announced his intention to retire from the company in march 2018. mr. mcgarry became executive vice president and chief financial officer in april 2015. he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, closed block operations from august 2013 to april 2015, after having served 17 as executive vice president, individual disability and long-term care closed block operations from september 2012. he previously served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk from july 2010, and as senior vice president, benefits, individual disability, and national client group business, unum us from january 2010. prior to that, he served in various other capacities within unum us, including as senior vice president, benefits operations and risk management from march 2008 to january 2010, and as senior vice president, benefits operations from january 2006 to march 2008. mr. mcgarry originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1986. mr. o'donnell was named president and chief executive officer, unum uk, in september 2012, after having joined the company as unum limited's chief financial officer in 2010. prior to joining unum limited, mr. o'donnell served as director of group finance at prudential plc, an international financial services company, from may 2008 to may 2010. he served as finance director at royal &amp; sunalliance plc, an international financial services company, from may 2005 to may 2008. mr. simonds was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us in july 2013, after having served as senior vice president and chief operating officer, unum us from june 2012. he previously served as senior vice president, growth operations, unum us from july 2010, and as senior vice president and chief marketing officer, unum us from march 2008. mr. simonds originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1994, left the company in 2000 to further his education and to serve as a consultant with mckinsey &amp; company, a global management consulting firm, and rejoined the company in 2003. item 1a. risk factors we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. discussed below are factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases. see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1. sustained periods of low interest rates in the long-term investment market may adversely affect our reported net investment income and the discount rates used in reserving for our insurance products and projecting our pension obligations, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. further declines in interest rates and/or the continuance of the current level of low interest rates and yields on fixed income investments may cause the rates of return on our investment portfolio to decrease more than expected, leading to lower net investment income than assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products. an interest, or discount, rate is used in calculating reserves for our insurance products. we set our reserve discount rate assumptions based on our current and expected future investment yield for assets supporting the reserves, considering current and expected future market conditions. if the discount rate assumed in our reserve calculations is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets will not earn enough investment income to support our future claim payments. in that case, the reserves may eventually be insufficient, resulting in the need to increase our reserves and/or increase our capital contributions to our insurance subsidiaries, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. our net periodic benefit costs and the value of our benefit obligations for our pension plans are determined based on a set of economic and demographic assumptions that represent our best estimate of future expected experience. major assumptions used in accounting for these plans include the expected discount (interest) rate and the long-term rate of return on plan assets. we set the discount rate assumption at the measurement date for each of our plans to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality fixed income corporate debt instruments matched against the timing and amounts of projected future benefits. a lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases our costs. our expectations for the future investment returns on plan assets are based on a combination of historical market performance, current market conditions, and future capital market assumptions obtained from external consultants and economists. the actual rate of return on plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period. increases or decreases in long-term interest rates as well as equity market volatility will impact the fair value of our plan assets and may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, "interest 18 rate risk" contained herein in item 7a, and note 9 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. actual experience may differ from our reserve assumptions which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. historical results may not be indicative of future performance due to, among other things, changes in our mix of business, re-pricing of certain lines of business, or any number of economic cyclical effects on our business. reserves, whether calculated under gaap or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. actual experience may differ from our reserve assumptions. there can be no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. life expectancies may continue to increase, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives disability or long-term care benefits and could result in a change in mortality assumptions and an increase in reserves for these and other long-tailed products. adjustments to reserve amounts may also be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors); premium rate increases; persistency; policy benefit offsets, including those for social security and other government-based welfare benefits; and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and notes 1 and 6 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. unfavorable economic conditions may result in lower sales, lower premium growth and persistency, higher claims incidence, and longer claims duration, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, both in the united states, the united kingdom, and to a lesser extent, the broader global financial markets. negative developments in the capital markets and/or the general economy could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in particular, factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses. given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, new product sales may be adversely affected. our premium growth may also be negatively impacted by lower premium growth from existing customers due to lower salary growth and lower growth in the number of employees covered under an existing policy. in addition, during such periods we may experience higher claims incidence, longer claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation. changes in laws and regulations that affect our industry or the customers to whom we sell our products may affect the cost or demand for our products, increase capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and adversely affect our profitability, liquidity, or growth. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the united states and abroad. the primary purpose of insurance regulation is to protect policyholders, not stockholders. to that end, applicable laws establish regulatory authorities, including state insurance departments in the united states and the pra in the united kingdom, with broad administrative powers over many aspects of the insurance business. for example, our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, we and our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. these laws and regulations can be complex and subject to differing interpretations and are regularly re-examined. existing or future laws and regulations, and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. for example, they may restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us, restrict transactions between subsidiaries and/or between us and our subsidiaries, and may require contributions of capital by us to our insurance subsidiaries even if we are otherwise in compliance with stated requirements. failure to comply with or to obtain 19 appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws or regulations could result in restrictions on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which they operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. it is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled and operate. we cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. the naic or state regulators may adopt revisions to the rbc formula, the pra may revise its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, the iais may adopt capital requirements to which we could be subject, or rating agencies may incorporate higher capital thresholds into their quantitative analyses, thus requiring additional capital contributions by us to our insurance subsidiaries. increased financial services regulation, which could include activities undertaken by the naic and regulatory authorities in the u.k. and the eu may impose greater quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and disclosure requirements and may impact the business strategies, capital requirements, and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. the united kingdom's financial ombudsman service, which was established to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses providing financial services, and the fca, which has rule-making, investigative, and enforcement powers to protect consumers, may hamper our ability to do business, which could have a material adverse effect on our u.k. operations. we use affiliated captive reinsurers for the limited purpose of reinsuring risks attributable to specified policies issued or reinsured by our insurance subsidiaries in order to effectively manage risks in connection with certain blocks of our business as well as to enhance our capital efficiency. if we were required to discontinue use of the captive reinsurers or to alter the structure of the captive reinsurance arrangements, our ability to maintain current rbc ratios and/or our capital deployment activities could be adversely affected. changes in u.s. programs such as healthcare reform and financial services sector reform may compete with or diminish the need or demand for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace. the u.s. social security disability insurance program may not be sustainable, which may adversely affect the level of our disability claim payments and reserves. legislative changes related to pension funding requirements could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and our profitability. changes in tax laws and other regulations or interpretations of such laws or regulations could unfavorably impact our corporate taxes. in addition, changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. although we expect tax reform to be beneficial to our earnings and long-term cash generation, we may experience some further pressure on our rbc ratios as a result of expected naic revisions to the rbc calculations to consider the lower u.s. statutory income tax rate. we expect our insurance subsidiaries to generate stronger statutory earnings. the level of excess capital generation is dependent on the timing and magnitude of these naic changes and the extent to which and how quickly the rating agencies will expect the industry to rebuild its rbc ratio levels. during 2016, the u.k. held a referendum and voted to leave the eu. the u.k. subsequently invoked article 50 of the treaty on the european union and is due to leave the eu on march 29, 2019. we may see some continued dampening of growth in the u.k. due to the current disruption and uncertainty in the u.k. economy. we may experience volatility in the fair values of our investments in u.k. and eu-based issuers, but we do not expect a material increase in other-than-temporary impairments or defaults, nor do we believe this volatility will impact our ability to hold these investments. the magnitude and longevity of potential negative economic impacts on our growth will depend on the agreements reached by the u.k. and eu as a result of exit negotiations and the resulting response of the u.k. marketplace. there are currently no indications that capital requirements for our u.k. operations will change, but economic conditions may cause volatility in our solvency ratios. our reported consolidated financial results may continue to be unfavorably impacted by the weakening of the british pound sterling relative to preceding periods. dodd-frank directs various government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process that continues to develop. as a result of the regulations implemented thus far, regulations directed at some derivative activities and the implementation of central clearing rules have increased the cost of some hedging activities primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements. we cannot predict the requirements of the remaining regulations that might ultimately be adopted, whether existing requirements will be repealed or changed, or how or whether such regulations will affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition, require us to raise additional capital, or result in a downgrade of our credit ratings. most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by the employee retirement income security act (erisa). changes to erisa enacted by congress or through judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of 20 managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability. the insurance departments in jurisdictions wherein our insurance subsidiaries conduct business may limit our ability to obtain rate increases under guaranteed renewable contracts or could require changes in rates and/or benefits to meet minimum loss ratio requirements which could negatively impact the profitability of our products. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. these actions could result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in our claims handling or other business practices, changes in procedures for the identification and payment to the states of benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, increases to reserving requirements, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, assessments by tax authorities or other governing agencies, fines, and other administrative action, which could injure our reputation, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, and/or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and notes 7 and 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. in addition to interest rate risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. default risk our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer's industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, unforeseen accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer's marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations. our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk. events or developments, such as economic conditions that impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio. events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector. a default results in the recognition of an impairment loss on the investment. a default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us. the probability of credit downgrades and defaults increases when the fixed income markets experience periods of volatility and illiquidity. credit spread risk our exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable u.s. treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads may unfavorably impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of the investment portfolio and may adversely impact liquidity. credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities. valuation risk we report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at fair value. valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, particularly during periods of market disruption, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our 21 financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we evaluate our investment portfolio for impairments. there can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken. additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. any event reducing the value of our securities other than on a temporary basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. market timing and liquidity risk while we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, there may at times be a lack of appropriate investments in the market which can be acquired. in addition, we may, in certain circumstances, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. there may also be a limited market for certain of our investments, such as our private placement fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, and policy loans, which makes them more illiquid. in periods of market volatility or disruption, other of our securities may also experience reduced liquidity. if events occur wherein we need to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment or need to quickly sell securities which are illiquid, market prices may be lower than what we might realize under normal circumstances, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of our investments and derivatives. a cyber attack or other security breach could disrupt our operations, result in the unauthorized disclosure or loss of confidential data, damage our reputation or relationships, and expose us to significant financial and legal liability, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we store confidential policyholder and employee information and other proprietary information on our information technology systems as a part of our normal business operations. although we devote significant resources to maintain security systems and implement measures to protect our information technology systems and the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information retained on them, and to date have not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity, there is no assurance that these systems and measures will be sufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. we have contractual and governance safeguards in place with our third-party outsourcing partners and cloud computing providers to manage security as part of the service they deliver to us, but these measures may not prevent attackers from exploiting weaknesses in their networks to access, misappropriate, alter, or delete our data. threats to our systems or those of third-party providers may originate externally, such as from cyber criminals or other hackers, or internally from within our company, such as from employee error or malfeasance. in some cases, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, we may be unaware of emerging threats and the magnitude of their effects, or we may not become aware of an unauthorized data disclosure incident for some time after it occurs, which could increase our exposure. as we increase the amount of information that we retain and that we share with third parties, our exposure to data security and related cybersecurity risks increases. a successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our information systems could cause serious negative consequences for us, including significant disruption of our operations, the loss or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information retained on those systems, harm to our reputation, decreased levels of customer service or satisfaction, violations of applicable privacy or other laws, and exposure to litigation or enforcement proceedings. while we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides coverage for network security, privacy liability, technology errors and omissions, media liability, first party network business interruption, and electronic restoration (which includes coverage for credit monitoring, notification costs, regulatory expense, and investigative expense), our insurance may not provide adequate loss coverage in all circumstances. 22 the failure of our business recovery and incident management processes to resume our business operations in the event of a natural catastrophe, cyber attack, or other event could adversely affect our profitability, results of operations, or financial condition. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, a cyber attack, cyber security breach or other information technology systems failure, a terrorist attack, or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those problems affect our information technology systems and destroy valuable data. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our employees were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. the failure of our information technology and/or disaster recovery systems for any reason could cause significant interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers' operations and result in the loss, theft, or failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions, legal claims, and increased expenses, and lead to a loss of customers and revenues. the failure to effectively execute upgrades to or replacements of information technology systems could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we rely heavily on the effective operation of our information technology systems to administer our business. although we believe we have information technology systems which adequately support our business needs, we continually upgrade our existing information technology systems and acquire or develop new systems to keep pace with the rapidly changing business and technology environment. there are risks involved with upgrading or replacing information technology systems, including, but not limited to, data loss, data errors, and disruption to our operations. we seek to monitor and control our exposure to the risks arising out of these activities through our risk control framework which encompasses a variety of reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes, and other mechanisms. competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability. all of our businesses are highly competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, the quality of our customer's experience regarding service and claims management, integrated product choices, enrollment capabilities, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. we compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability. all areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of the group products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market. there is a risk that purchasers of employee benefits products may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us, particularly if industry pricing levels do not align with our view of adequate premium rates. we are operating in a dynamic competitive environment of both traditional and non-traditional competitors, with changes in product offerings, enrollment capabilities, and technology solutions. the level and intensity of competition may also grow due to existing competitors becoming more aggressive, and an increase in merger and acquisition activity which may result in larger competitors with greater financial resources. there are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies and new competitors in the future. see "competition" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. a decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may adversely affect our competitive position, our ability to hedge our risks, and our cost of capital or ability to raise capital, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. a downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect our relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. a downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to unum group can be expected to adversely affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise additional capital. if we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our derivatives financial instrument contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts. such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks. it is unclear how rating agencies will view the impact to rbc as a result of the tcja and there is a potential that rating agencies may require additional capital for tax reform rbc impacts in order to maintain credit ratings. 23 see "ratings" contained herein in item 1 and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. there are many events which may harm our reputation, including, but not limited to, those discussed in this item 1a regarding regulatory investigations, legal proceedings, and cyber or other information security incidents. in addition, as an insurance company, we are paid to accept certain risks. those who conduct our business, including executive officers and members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, and to some extent, independent agents and brokers, do so in part by making decisions that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline, maintaining effective claim management and customer service performance, managing our investment portfolio and derivatives trading activities, delivering effective technology solutions, complying with established sales practices, executing our capital management strategy, exiting a line of business and/or pursuing strategic growth initiatives, and other decisions. although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks or unintentionally failing to comply with internal policies and practices such that errors occur, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures will be effective. if our employees and business associates take excessive risks and/or fail to comply with internal policies and practices, the impact of those events may damage our market position and reputation. depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital and/or increase our cost of capital. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and note 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on regulatory matters and legal proceedings. we provide a broad array of disability, long-term care, group life, and voluntary insurance products that are affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. disability insurance disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence and recoveries for disability insurance. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses. claim durations may be extended by medical improvements which could extend life expectancies. the relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. the pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ among product classes. our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business. guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market. long-term care insurance long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products. this creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval by our states of 24 domicile and may also be subject to approval by jurisdictions in which our policyholders reside. the rate approval process can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all, and the rate increases ultimately approved may be favorable or unfavorable relative to assumptions used to establish our reserves. we monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends. changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves. mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives long-term care benefits and may subject more policyholders to advanced aging and an associated increase in claims incidence. medical advances may continue to have an impact on claim incidence and duration, both favorable and unfavorable. due to the long duration of the product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows are difficult to match to those of our maturing liabilities. sustained periods of low or declining interest rates could result in increases in reserves and adversely affect our results of operations. group life insurance group life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, and pandemic health events, which may also affect the cost of and availability of reinsurance coverage. voluntary products voluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics. our voluntary life insurance products generally include interest sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate. it is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate. the non-life contracts are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1 and "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. changes in accounting standards may materially affect our financial statements. our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, in both the united states and the united kingdom, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the u.s. financial accounting standards board (fasb), the u.k. accounting standards board (asb), and the naic. accounting standards issued by the fasb and asb may be influenced by the international accounting standards board (iasb). these authoritative bodies have several ongoing projects regarding accounting standards that will likely be issued in the near future. future accounting standards we adopt will change current accounting and disclosure requirements applicable to our financial statements. such changes may have a material effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition. our risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. we have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, and operations risks, which ultimately impact our reputational risk. however, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for monitoring and managing risk may not fully predict or mitigate future exposures. see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further information about our risk management program. 25 litigation and contingencies are common in our businesses and may result in financial losses and/or harm to our reputation. we are, and in the future may be, defendants in a number of litigation matters, and the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. an estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings. as part of our normal operations in managing claims, we are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. we expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and note 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings. reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. as part of our overall risk management and capital management strategies, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and may impact the level of capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business, result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue, and increase our capital requirements. the collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the effectiveness of our hedging programs may be affected by changes in the economic environment, changes in interest rates, capital market volatility, non-performance by our counterparties, changes in the level of required collateral, or regulation, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we use derivative financial instruments to help us manage certain risks related to our business operations, primarily interest rate risk, risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities, and foreign currency risk. factors associated with derivative financial instruments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. ineffectiveness of our hedges due to changes in expected future events, such as the risk created by uncertainty in the economic environment or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance by our counterparties, many of which are financial institutions. non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind hedges, and we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged. under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral, which may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral. changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute hedging strategies due to the increased economic cost of derivatives, primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements. 26 currency translation could materially impact our reported operating results. the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results. our reported consolidated financial results may continue to be unfavorably impacted by the weakening of the british pound sterling. however, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert pounds into dollars. as a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. unum group depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it so that it can meet its obligations and pay dividends. our ability to transfer funds to unum group may be impaired by adverse financial results or a change in capital requirements. accordingly, internal sources of capital and liquidity may not always be sufficient. if we need to seek external capital, adverse market conditions may affect our access to capital or our cost of capital. unum group is a holding company for insurance and other subsidiaries and has no significant operations of its own. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance laws and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds or other assets to affiliates, including to unum group. the level of earnings and capital in our subsidiaries, as well as business conditions and rating agency considerations, could impact our insurance and other subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to unum group, which could impair our ability to pay dividends to unum group's common stockholders, meet our debt and other payment obligations, and/or repurchase shares of unum group's common stock. the use of funds held by unum group as consideration in any acquisition could affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. a change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations. deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in this item 1a may impose higher capital or reserve requirements on our insurance subsidiaries, increase collateral requirements for certain of our derivatives transactions, and/or implement other requirements which could unfavorably affect our liquidity. without sufficient liquidity, our ability to maintain and grow our operations would be limited. if our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us. if our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus is considered important not only by us but by insurance regulatory authorities in the u.s., the pra in the u.k., and the rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary's ability to distribute funds to our holding companies. obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be challenging in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty. the markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. the availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock in unum group. we rely on our credit facility as a potential source of liquidity. our right to borrow funds under this facility is subject to financial covenants, negative covenants, and events of default. our ability to borrow under this facility is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facility or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments would restrict our ability to access this facility when needed, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1,"liquidity and capital resources" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and notes 8 and 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. 27 we have assets which may not be fully recoverable or realizable, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. if our business does not perform well or as initially anticipated in our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment loss on intangible assets or long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset. we have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (dac), value of business acquired (voba), and goodwill. dac and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for dac and voba is performed on an annual basis. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either dac and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary, we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate and information technology software, also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we may be unable to recover the carrying amount. we assess our deferred tax assets to determine if they are realizable. factors in our determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate future taxable income. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established with a corresponding charge to net income. charges such as accelerated amortization, impairment losses, or the establishment of valuation allowances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 7, and 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of certain assets in our investment portfolio, disrupt our operations, or result in higher claim costs. the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military actions, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in the global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, business disruption, and reduced economic activity. some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad. in addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. beyond obtaining insurance coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events away from us. we purchase reinsurance protection against catastrophic disaster events, including terrorism. the continued threat of terrorism could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. see "reinsurance" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 87 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to various market risk exposures, including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding our risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating our overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a, "investments" contained herein in item 7, and notes 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate changes results from our holdings of financial instruments such as fixed rate investments, derivatives, and interest sensitive liabilities. fixed rate investments include fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, and short-term investments. fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, public utility bonds, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and redeemable preferred stock, all of which are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations. certain of our financial instruments, fixed maturity securities and derivatives, are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of these financial instruments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. a rise in interest rates may decrease the net unrealized gain related to these financial instruments, but may improve our ability to earn higher rates of return on new purchases of fixed maturity securities. conversely, a decline in interest rates may increase the net unrealized gain, but new securities may be purchased at lower rates of return. although changes in fair value of fixed maturity securities and derivatives due to changes in interest rates may impact amounts reported in our consolidated balance sheets, these changes will not cause an economic gain or loss unless we sell investments, terminate derivative positions, determine that an investment is other than temporarily impaired, or determine that a derivative instrument is no longer an effective hedge. other fixed rate investments, such as mortgage loans and policy loans, are carried at amortized cost and unpaid balances, respectively, rather than fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. these investments may have fair values substantially higher or lower than the carrying values reflected in our balance sheets. a change in interest rates could impact our financial position if we sold our mortgage loan investments at times of low market value. a change in interest rates would not impact our financial position at repayment of policy loans, as ultimately the cash surrender values or death benefits would be reduced for the carrying value of any outstanding policy loans. carrying amounts for short-term investments approximate fair value, and we believe we have minimal interest rate risk exposure from these investments. we believe that the risk of being forced to liquidate investments or terminate derivative positions is minimal, primarily due to the level of capital at our insurance subsidiaries, the level of cash and marketable securities at our holding companies, and our investment strategy which we believe provides for adequate cash flows to meet the funding requirements of our business. we may in certain circumstances, however, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. although our policy benefits are primarily in the form of claim payments and we therefore have minimal exposure to the policy withdrawal risk associated with deposit products such as individual life policies or annuities, the fair values of liabilities under all insurance contracts are taken into consideration in our overall management of interest rate risk, which minimizes exposure to changing interest rates through the matching of investment cash flows with amounts due under insurance contracts. changes in interest rates and individuals' behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. we actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to limit interest rate risk. due to the long duration of our long-term care product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing 87 liabilities. we model and test asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios enables us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to limit the risk of disadvantageous outcomes. we use this analysis in determining hedging strategies and utilizing derivative financial instruments. we use current and forward interest rate swaps, options on forward interest rate swaps, and forward treasury locks to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. debt is not carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. if we modify or replace existing debt instruments at current market rates, we may incur a gain or loss on the transaction. we believe our debt-related risk to changes in interest rates is relatively minimal. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. we measure our financial instruments' market risk related to changes in interest rates using a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates potential changes in fair values as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 based on a hypothetical immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year-end levels. the selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. the hypothetical potential changes in fair value of our financial instruments at december 31, 2017 and 2016 are shown as follows: december 31, 2017 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 45,457.8 $ 41,706.3 $ (3,751.5 ) mortgage loans 2,306.2 2,175.6 (130.6 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 370.0 342.4 (27.6 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and deferred acquisition costs (2) $ (4,770.3 ) $ (2,645.8 ) $ 2,124.5 long-term debt (3,048.7 ) (2,819.0 ) 229.7 derivatives (1) swaps $ 904.5 $ (32.7 ) $ (54.2 ) $ (21.5 ) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (15.9 ) (21.0 ) (5.1 ) 88 december 31, 2016 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 44,217.3 $ 40,646.2 $ (3,571.1 ) mortgage loans 2,122.2 2,004.8 (117.4 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 358.1 331.5 (26.6 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and deferred acquisition costs (2) $ (3,970.8 ) $ (1,898.3 ) $ 2,072.5 long-term debt (3,175.8 ) (2,985.8 ) 190.0 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,042.0 $ (20.0 ) $ (43.0 ) $ (23.0 ) forwards 10.0 (0.1 ) 0.3 0.4 embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (46.7 ) (51.3 ) (4.6 ) (1) these financial instruments are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates may affect the fair value at which the item is reported in our consolidated balance sheets. the corresponding offsetting change is reported in other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes, except for changes in the fair value of derivatives accounted for as fair value hedges or derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, the offset of which is reported as a component of net realized investment gain or loss. (2) the adjustment to reserves and deferred acquisition costs for unrealized investment gains and losses reflects the adjustments to policyholder liabilities and deferred acquisition costs that would be necessary if the unrealized investment gains and losses related to the fixed maturity securities had been realized. changes in this adjustment are also reported as a component of other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities was estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values shown in the chart above for all other items were determined using discounted cash flow analyses. because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. we remain in an environment of low interest rates, which continues to place pressure on our profit margins as we invest cash flows to support our businesses. we estimate that we will have approximately $2.1 billion of investable cash flows in 2018. assuming interest rates and credit spreads remain constant throughout 2019 at the january 2018 market levels, our net investment income would decrease by approximately $0.4 million in 2018 and $2.7 million in 2019 as a result of the investment of cash flows at levels below our current expectations. this interest rate scenario does not give consideration to the effect of other factors which could impact these results, such as changes in the bond market and changes in hedging strategies and positions, nor does it consider the potential change to our discount rate reserve assumptions and any mitigating factors such as pricing adjustments. in addition, a continued low or declining interest rate environment may also result in an increase in the net periodic benefit costs for our pension plans, but we do not believe it would materially affect net income in 2018 or 2019. 89 foreign currency risk the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. we are exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in the british pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rates primarily as they relate to the translation of the financial results of our u.k. operations. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results. we do not hedge against the possible impact of this risk. because we do not actually convert pounds into dollars except for a limited number of transactions, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue and not a reflection of operations or profitability in our u.k. operations. assuming the pound to dollar exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2017 and 2016 levels, stockholders' equity as reported in u.s. dollars would have been lower by approximately $71 million and $66 million, respectively. assuming the pound to dollar average exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the actual average exchange rates for 2017 and 2016 , adjusted operating income, as reported in u.s. dollars, would have decreased approximately $11 million and $13 million, respectively. dividends paid by unum limited are generally held at our u.k. finance subsidiary or our u.k. holding company. if these funds are repatriated to our u.s. holding company, we would at that time be subject to foreign currency risk as the value of the dividend, when converted into u.s. dollars, would be dependent upon the foreign exchange rate at the time of conversion. we are also exposed to foreign currency risk related to certain foreign investment securities denominated in local currencies. we use foreign currency interest rate swaps to hedge or minimize the foreign exchange risk associated with these instruments. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "consolidated operating results" and "unum uk segment" contained herein in item 7 for further information concerning foreign currency translation. risk management effectively taking and managing risks is essential to the success of our company. to facilitate this effort, we have a formal enterprise risk management (erm) program, with a framework comprising the following key components: risk-aware culture and governance risk appetite policy risk identification and prioritization risk and capital modeling risk management activities risk reporting our erm framework is the ongoing system of people, processes, and tools across our company under which we intend to function consistently and collectively to identify and assess risks and opportunities, to manage all material risks within our risk appetite, and to contribute to strategic decision making. with the goal of maximizing shareholder value, the primary objectives of our erm framework are to support unum group in meeting its operational and financial objectives, maintaining liquidity, optimizing capital, and protecting franchise value. risk-aware culture and governance we employ a risk management model under which risk-based decisions are made daily on a local level. to achieve long-term success, we believe risk management must be the responsibility of all employees. the individual and collective decisions of our employees play a key role in successfully managing our overall risk profile. we strive for a culture of integrity, commitment, and accountability and we believe these values allow our employees to feel comfortable identifying issues as well as taking ownership for addressing potential problems. 90 our culture is reinforced by our system of risk governance. we employ a multi-layered risk control system. our three lines of defense model is depicted below. 1st line: own and manage 2nd line: oversee 3rd line: independent assurance business processes and procedures employed throughout the company through which management assumes and monitors significant risks management committees chartered with oversight of activities within the 1st and 2nd lines of defense, mitigation of substantial exposures, and management of emerging risks independent assurance on the effectiveness of governance, risk management, and internal control business units are primarily responsible for managing their principal risks. our risk committees and other management committees serve risk and control functions responsible for providing risk oversight, or the second line of risk control. our internal audit team provides periodic independent reviews and assurance activities serving as our third line of risk control. in addition, our board has an active role, as a whole and through its committees, in overseeing management of our risks. the board is responsible for managing strategic risk and regularly reviews information regarding our capital, liquidity, and operations, as well as the risks associated with each. the risk and finance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of our risk management process, including financial risk, operational risk, and any other risk not specifically assigned to another board committee. it also is responsible for oversight of risks associated with investments, capital and financing plans and activities, and related financial matters, including matters pertaining to our closed block segment. the audit committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to financial reporting risk and certain operational risks. the human capital committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to our compensation plans and programs. the regulatory compliance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks related to regulatory, compliance, policy, and legal matters, both current and emerging, and whether of a local, state, federal, or international nature. while each committee is responsible for evaluating certain risks and overseeing the management of such risks, the entire board is regularly informed through committee reports about such risks in addition to the risk information it receives directly. our executive risk management committee is responsible for overseeing our enterprise-wide risk management program. the chief risk officer, who is a member of the executive risk management committee, has primary responsibility for our erm program and is supported by corporate risk committees and by the risk committees of our operating segments. operating segment risk committees for unum us, unum uk, colonial life, and closed block are responsible for oversight of risks specific to their businesses. these committees are responsible for identifying, measuring, reporting, and managing strategic insurance and operational risks within their respective areas, consistent with enterprise risk management guidance. corporate risk committees and other management committees oversee the operational, global technology services, investment, and capital management risks on a corporate level. risk appetite policy our risk appetite policy describes the types of risks we are willing to take, as well as the amount of enterprise risk exposure we deem acceptable in pursuit of our goals, with an objective of clearly defining boundaries for our risk-taking activities. the starting point of our philosophy and approach to our erm strategy is our corporate strategy. in contrast to many multi-line peer companies, we do not offer retirement savings, traditional medical benefits, or property and casualty insurance. our corporate strategy is focused on providing group, individual, and voluntary benefits, either as stand-alone products or combined with other coverages, that create comprehensive benefits solutions for employers. we have market leadership positions in the product lines we offer and believe this combination of focused expertise and experience is a competitive advantage and forms the foundation of our approach to risk management. we believe our sound and consistent business practices, strong internal compliance program, and comprehensive risk management strategy enable us to operate efficiently and to identify and address potential areas of risk in our business. we take and manage risks to achieve our business and strategic objectives, and our risk appetite statement sets boundaries for risk-taking activities that link earnings, capital, and operational processes, as well as summarizes our most material risk limits and controls. we monitor our risk profile against our established risk tolerance and limits. risks falling outside our risk tolerance and limits are reported to the applicable governance group, where decisions are made pertaining to acceptance of the risk or implementation of remediation plans or corrective actions as deemed appropriate by that governance group. 91 risk identification and prioritization risk identification and prioritization is an ongoing process, whereby we identify and assess our risk positions and exposures, including notable risk events. additionally, we identify emerging risks and analyze how material future risks might affect us. knowing the potential risks we face allows us to monitor and manage their potential effects including adjusting our strategies as appropriate and holding capital levels which provide financial flexibility. risk and other management committees have primary responsibility for identifying and prioritizing risks within their respective areas. we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. for additional information on certain risks that may adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1 and "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. risk and capital modeling we assess material risks, including how they affect us and how individual risks interrelate, to provide valuable information to management in order that they may effectively manage our risks. we use qualitative and quantitative approaches to assess existing and emerging risks and to develop mitigating strategies to limit our exposure to both. we utilize stress testing and scenario analysis for risk management and to shape our business, financial, and strategic planning activities. both are key components of our risk appetite policy and play an important role in monitoring, assessing, managing, and mitigating our primary risk exposures. in particular, stress testing of our capital and liquidity management strategies enables us to identify areas of high exposure, assess mitigating actions, develop contingency plans, and guide decisions around our target capital and liquidity levels. for example, we periodically perform stress tests on certain categories of assets or liabilities to support development of capital and liquidity risk contingency plans. these tests help ensure that we have a buffer to support our operations in uncertain times and financial flexibility to respond to market opportunities. stress testing is also central to reserve adequacy testing, cash flow testing, and asset and liability management. in addition, we aim to constantly improve our capital modeling techniques and methodologies that are used to determine a level of capital that is commensurate with our risk profile and to ensure compliance with evolving regulatory and rating agency requirements. our capital modeling reflects appropriate aggregation of risks and diversification benefits resulting from our mix of products and business units. our internal capital modeling and allocation aids us in making significant business decisions including strategic planning, capital management, risk limit determination, reinsurance purchases, hedging activities, asset allocation, pricing, and corporate development. risk management activities we accept and manage strategic, credit, and insurance risks in accordance with our corporate strategy, investment policy, and annual business plans. the following fundamental principles are embedded in our risk management efforts across our company. we believe in the benefits of specialization and a focused business strategy. we seek profitable risk-taking in areas where we have established risk management skills and capabilities. we seek to manage our exposure to insurance risk through a combination of prudent underwriting with effective risk selection, maintaining pricing discipline, sound reserving practices, claims operational effectiveness, and selective use of reinsurance. detailed underwriting guidelines and claim policies are tools used to manage our insurance risk exposure. we also monitor exposures against internally prescribed limits, and we diversify to reduce potential concentration risk and volatility. we maintain a detailed set of investment policies and guidelines, including fundamental credit analysis, that are used to manage our credit risk exposure and diversify our risks across asset classes and issuers. finally, we foster a risk-aware culture that embeds our corporate values and our code of conduct in our daily operations and preserves our reputation with customers and other key stakeholders. we monitor a composite set of operational risk metrics that measure operating effectiveness from the customer perspective. 92 risk reporting regular internal and external risk reporting is an integral part of our erm framework. internally, erm reports are a standard part of our quarterly senior management and board meetings. the reports summarize our existing and emerging risk exposures, as well as report against the tolerances and limits defined by our risk appetite policy. externally, we are subject to a number of regulatory and rating agency risk examinations, and risk reports are often included. annually, we file our own risk and solvency assessment (orsa) summary report with the applicable insurance regulators for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries. this report provides strong evidence of the strengths of our erm framework, measurement approaches, key assumptions utilized in assessing our risks, and prospective solvency assessments under both normal and stressed conditions. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 for additional information regarding the orsa. 93risk factors 19 competition there is significant competition among insurance companies for the types of products we sell. we are operating in a dynamic competitive environment of both traditional and non-traditional competitors, with changes in product offerings, enrollment services, and technology solutions. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, quality of the customer experience regarding service and claims management, integrated product choices, enrollment capabilities, financial strength ratings, and claims-paying ratings. in the individual and group disability markets, we compete in the united states with a number of major companies and regionally with other companies offering specialty products. our principal competitors for our other products, including group life and the product offerings sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction, include the largest insurance companies in the united states. some of these companies have more competitive pricing or have higher claims-paying ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. in both the united kingdom and poland, we compete for the individual and group products we sell with a mix of large internationally recognized providers and strong local carriers. we believe the need for the types of products we offer is significant. individuals and families often live paycheck to paycheck with a considerable chance of being out of work. pressure is also mounting on governments as to the sustainability of public assistance. based on current penetration levels, we believe there is substantial upside growth potential. all areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of our products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market. there is a risk that our customers may be able to obtain more favorable terms or improved technology solutions from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us. the effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. we must attract and retain independent agents and brokers to actively market our products. strong competition exists among insurers for agents and brokers. we compete with other insurers for sales agents and brokers primarily on the basis of our product offerings, financial strength, support services, and compensation. sales of our products could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and brokers. for further discussion, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. 12 regulation we and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive and comprehensive supervision and regulation in the united states, the united kingdom, and poland. the laws and regulations with which we must comply are complex and subject to change. new or existing laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. as a result of the financial market and economic challenges in recent years, regulation and the cost of compliance with regulation has continued to increase. insurance regulation and oversight our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and oversight by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they do business and by the u.s. department of labor (dol) on a national basis, primarily for the protection of policyholders. state insurance regulators in the u.s. generally have broad powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business, including the power to: license and examine insurance companies; regulate and supervise sales practices and market conduct; license agents and brokers; approve policy forms; approve premium rates and subsequent increases thereon for certain insurance products; establish reserve requirements and solvency standards; place limitations on shareholder dividends; prescribe the form and content of required financial statements and reports; regulate the types and amounts of permitted investments; and regulate reinsurance transactions. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are examined periodically by their states of domicile and by other states in which they are licensed to conduct business. the domestic examinations have traditionally emphasized financial matters from the perspective of protection of policyholders, but they can and have covered other subjects that an examining state may be interested in reviewing, such as market conduct issues. examinations in other states more typically focus on market conduct, such as a review of sales practices, including the content and use of advertising materials and the licensing and appointing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, and customer service practices, and identification and handling of unclaimed property to determine compliance with state laws. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessments by state insurance guaranty associations to cover the proportional cost of insolvent or failed insurers. the dol enforces a comprehensive federal statute which regulates claims paying fiduciary responsibilities and reporting and disclosure requirements for most employee benefit plans. our u.k. insurance subsidiary, unum limited, is subject to dual regulation by the prudential regulation authority (pra) and the financial conduct authority (fca). the pra oversees the financial health and stability of financial services firms and is responsible for the prudential regulation and day-to-day supervision of insurance companies. the fca seeks to protect consumers and oversees financial services products and practices, including those governing insurance companies in the u.k. in june 2016, the u.k. held a referendum and voted to leave the european union (eu). the u.k. subsequently invoked article 50 of the treaty and is due to leave the eu on march 29, 2019. the u.k.'s decision to leave the eu may add cost and complexity to our compliance efforts if new laws and regulations are established that significantly diverge from those currently in place, however, we are not aware of any indications of such changes in the short-term and do not expect significant changes over the longer term. our polish insurance subsidiary, unum poland, is subject to regulation by the komisja nadzoru finansowego (knf) of the financial supervision authority (fsa) in poland. the knf oversees the financial health and stability of financial services firms and is responsible for the prudential regulation and day-to-day supervision of insurance companies and other financial institutions. capital requirements risk-based capital (rbc) standards for u.s. life insurance companies are prescribed by the national association of insurance commissioners (naic). the domiciliary states of our u.s. insurance subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the naic rbc model act, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers. the basis of the system is a risk-based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer's business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. the life and health rbc formula is designed to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks. the formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. the formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers generally. the naic modified the rbc factors in 2018 to reflect the lower u.s. statutory income tax rate that was enacted in 2017 which resulted in lower rbc ratios for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries, including our captive reinsurers, as of december 31, 2018 . although the rbc ratios for our insurance subsidiaries are lower than the prior 13 year, the ratios continue to remain in line with our expectations and are significantly above the level that would require state regulatory action. the naic has also issued a proposal to implement a new and more granular rbc structure for fixed income asset capital charges. the proposed structure will expand the fixed income asset designations from six to 20 categories and will revise factor values. we do not anticipate that the new structure related to fixed income assets will be effective before year end 2019. we will continue to monitor the naic's activities on this issue. the naic continues to review the state-based solvency regulation framework to identify opportunities to respond to national and international insurance regulatory and solvency developments. the topics of its review include capital requirements, governance and risk management, statutory accounting and financial reporting, and reinsurance. this ongoing review will likely result in significant changes to u.s. insurance regulation and solvency standards, including those for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries. one of the outcomes of the naic's review was the adoption of the naic risk management and own risk and solvency assessment (orsa) model act which, following enactment at the state level, requires insurers to provide, at least annually, a group-level perspective on the risks of the current and future business plans and the sufficiency of capital to support those risks. all states where our traditional u.s. insurance subsidiaries are domiciled have enacted orsa requirements, and we file an orsa summary report annually with the applicable insurance regulators. the naic has established a working group charged with developing a group capital calculation that can be used by regulators as a baseline quantitative measure in assessing the risks and financial position of insurance groups. the initial recommendation for calculation is an rbc aggregation approach that would utilize existing regulatory calculations for legal entities within the group. items still under development include the scope of the group of legal entities that would be subject to the calculation as well as factors to be used for non-insurance entities and non-u.s. insurance entities within the group. it is too early to predict what, if any, impact this will have on our capital requirements. the naic has adopted a valuation manual containing a principles-based approach to life insurance company reserves. the effective date to begin a three-year implementation period was january 2017 and applies only to new business. the adoption of this valuation manual has not had a material impact on our statutory reserves. in 2012, the naic established a subgroup to study the insurance industry's use of captive reinsurers and special purpose vehicles to transfer insurance risk and is considering ways to promote uniformity in both the approval and supervision of such reinsurers. more recently, the naic adopted a proposal to subject certain captive reinsurers and special purpose vehicles to the same capital requirements as traditional insurers. as the naic and state insurance regulators continue to examine the use of captive insurance companies to finance reserves required under current regulations, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of their work, or how long or extensively they will continue to focus on this issue. although we believe it to be unlikely, a potential outcome of future naic decisions from its various committees, task forces, and working groups is that companies could be prohibited from using captive reinsurers. no changes in the use or regulation of captive reinsurers have been proposed by the naic, and we are unable to predict the extent of any changes that might be made. accordingly, we expect to continue our strategy of using captive reinsurers to manage risks and enhance capital efficiency while monitoring the naic's study and proposed changes in regulations. see "reinsurance" contained herein in this item 1 for further discussion. the pra has statutory requirements, including capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and minimum solvency margins, to which unum limited must adhere as part of the provisions of solvency ii, an eu directive that prescribes capital requirements and risk management standards for the european insurance industry. our european holding company is also subject to the solvency ii requirements relevant to insurance holding companies, while its subsidiaries, which includes unum limited, are subject to group supervision under solvency ii. the unum european economic area (eea) group, which is comprised of the european holding company and its subsidiaries, received approval from the pra to use its own internal model for calculating regulatory capital and also received approval for certain associated regulatory permissions including transitional relief as the solvency ii capital regime is implemented. although there are currently no indications that the regulatory capital regime for our u.k. operations will change due to the u.k.'s decision to leave the eu, it remains too early to predict what, if any, impact this may have on existing capital requirements for our u.k. entities, but economic conditions may cause volatility in our solvency ratios. the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) is developing a common framework (comframe) for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (iaigs) that contemplates group-wide supervision across national boundaries, including uniform standards for insurer corporate governance and enterprise risk management, a framework for group capital adequacy assessment that accounts for group-wide risks, and the establishment of ongoing supervisory colleges. we do not qualify as an iaig under the current criteria for designating an iaig. however, we monitor the activities of the iais for the potential that comframe could apply to us in the future. the iais expects to implement an insurance capital standard in the form of confidential reporting to supervisory colleges by the end of 2019. at this time, we cannot predict what, 14 if any, additional capital requirements, compliance costs, or other requirements this proposed standard might impose on us, if adopted. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources" contained herein in item 7 and note 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. insurance holding company regulation we and our u.s. insurance subsidiaries (excluding captive reinsurers) are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which currently include maine, massachusetts, new york, south carolina, and tennessee. these laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including information concerning capital structure, ownership, management, financial condition, and certain intercompany transactions. transactions between an insurer and affiliates in the holding company system generally must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval by the domiciliary insurance regulator. in addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources - cash available from subsidiaries" contained herein in item 7. there are a number of proposals to amend state insurance laws and regulations in ways that could affect us and our insurance subsidiaries. the naic has adopted or amended model laws on holding company regulation that provide for supervision of insurers at the corporate group level. the various proposals to implement group supervision include uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to rbc calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies, including a requirement that the ultimate controlling person of a u.s. insurer submit to the lead state insurance regulator an annual enterprise risk report, which identifies activities, circumstances, or events involving one or more affiliates of an insurer that, if not remedied properly, are likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole. the naic has adopted the corporate governance annual disclosure model act and the corporate governance annual disclosure model regulation, which require u.s. insurers to disclose detailed information regarding their governance practices. the model act and regulation must be adopted by individual state legislatures and insurance regulators in order to be effective in a particular state. at this time, among the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, the model act and regulation are effective only in maine, massachusetts, and tennessee. the naic adopted the insurance data security model law, which creates a legal framework that requires insurance companies to establish cybersecurity programs designed to protect the private data of consumers. the law outlines planned cybersecurity testing, and the development of incident response plans for breach notification procedures. the model law must be adopted by individual state legislatures and insurance regulators in order to be effective in particular state. at this time, among the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, the model law is effective only in south carolina. the new york state department of financial services has established similar regulations to this law which became effective in 2017 and the state of california has enacted the california consumer privacy act of 2018. the laws of most states, including the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurance company or its holding company. where these laws apply to us, there can be no effective change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement containing specified information with the appropriate insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval of the proposed change. the usual measure for a presumptive change of control pursuant to these laws is the acquisition of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company, although this presumption is rebuttable. consequently, a person acquiring 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company without the prior approval of the insurance regulators in the state(s) of domicile of the insurance company(ies) sought to be acquired (or whose holding company is sought to be acquired) will be in violation of these laws. such a person may also be subject to one or more of the following actions: (i) injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those shares by the applicable insurance regulators; (ii) prohibition of voting of such shares; and (iii) other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulators. further, many states' insurance laws require that prior notification be given to state insurance regulators of a change in control of a non-domiciled insurance company doing business in the state. these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance regulators to disapprove the change in control; however, they do authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist, such as undue market 15 concentration. any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-notification laws. these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. federal laws and regulations enacted in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank) effected comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the united states. dodd-frank directed various government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, many of which remain to be completed. among other provisions, dodd-frank created a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets, including requirements that certain swaps be executed through a centralized exchange or regulated facility and be cleared through a regulated clearinghouse. it also subjected us and major swap participants to capital and margin (i.e., collateral) requirements, which generally had the effect of increasing the costs of hedging and the credit risk posed by some counterparties. dodd-frank also established the federal insurance office (fio) within the department of the treasury, with powers over most lines of insurance, and the financial stability oversight council (fsoc). the fio is authorized to gather data and information to monitor aspects of the insurance industry, identify issues in the regulation of insurers about insurance matters, and preempt state insurance measures under certain circumstances. although the fio is prohibited from directly regulating the business of insurance, the fio may also recommend enhanced regulations to state regulatory authorities or recommend to the fsoc that it designate an insurer as a "systemically important financial institution" (sifi). an insurer designated as a sifi could be subject to federal reserve supervision and heightened regulatory standards. we have not been designated as a sifi, and at this time we believe it is unlikely that we would be designated as such. we continue to monitor the political, legislative and regulatory environment, where possible amendments to various provisions of dodd-frank are under discussion. we are subject to the laws and regulations generally applicable to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange relating to public reporting and disclosure, accounting and financial reporting, corporate governance, and securities trading. further, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and rules and regulations adopted under this regulation, have increased the requirements for us and other public companies in these and other areas. the usa patriot act of 2001 (patriot act) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. the patriot act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. anti-money laundering laws outside of the united states contain some similar provisions. additionally, other federal laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and regulations issued by the office of foreign asset's controls, as well as the u.k.'s bribery act of 2010, have increased requirements relating to identifying customers, prohibiting transactions with certain organizations or individuals, watching for and reporting suspicious transactions, responding to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, sharing information with other financial institutions, and requiring the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls. we are subject to federal income, employment, excise and other taxes related to both our u.s. and our foreign operations. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. federal government enacted a tax bill, h.r.1, an act to provide reconciliation pursuant to titles ii and v of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018, more commonly known as the tax cuts and jobs act (tcja). the key provisions of the tcja relevant to us are as follows: establishes a corporate income tax rate of 21 percent; creates a territorial tax system rather than a worldwide system, which will generally allow companies to repatriate future foreign source earnings without incurring additional u.s. taxes by providing a 100 percent exemption for the foreign source portion of dividends from certain foreign subsidiaries; subjects undistributed and previously untaxed foreign earnings and profits to a one-time transition tax also referred to as a deemed repatriation toll charge; creates a u.s. shareholder tax on certain foreign subsidiary income above a routine equity return on tangible depreciable business assets (global intangible low-taxed income); decreases tax-deductible life and property and casualty insurance reserves; 16 increases the amount and amortization period of acquisition costs capitalized for tax purposes; reduces the maximum deduction for net operating loss (nol) carryforwards arising in companies other than non-life insurance companies in tax years beginning after 2017 to a percentage of the taxpayer's taxable income. it also allows any nols generated in tax years beginning after december 31, 2017 to be carried forward indefinitely and repeals carrybacks. nol provisions for non-life insurance companies remain unchanged from current law; allows businesses to immediately write off the cost of new investments in certain qualified depreciable assets made after september 27, 2017 subject to phase downs starting in 2023; eliminates or reduces certain deductions (including deductions for certain compensation arrangements, certain payments made to governments for violations of law and certain legal settlements), exclusions and credits and adds other provisions that broaden the tax base; and creates a new base erosion anti-abuse tax (beat) that subjects certain payments made by a u.s. company to a related foreign company to additional taxes. see "executive summary" and "liquidity and capital resources" contained herein in item 7 and notes 7 and 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for discussion of the impact to our financial position and results of operations as a result of these changes. federal tax laws and regulations are subject to change, and any such change could materially impact our federal taxes and reduce profitability as well as capital levels in our insurance subsidiaries. we continually monitor federal tax legislative and regulatory developments to understand their potential impact on our profitability. for further discussion of regulation, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. geographic areas adjusted operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our unum international segment was approximately 6 percent of our consolidated adjusted operating revenue in 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 . as of december 31, 2018 , total assets equaled approximately 6 percent of consolidated assets and total liabilities equaled approximately 5 percent of consolidated liabilities for our unum international segment. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currencies of our unum international segment will impact our reported operating results. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. see "reporting segments" contained herein in this item 1; "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7; and note 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum international's operating results. employees at december 31, 2018 , we had approximately 9,600 full-time employees. available information our internet website address is www.unum.com . we make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. 17 executive officers of the registrant our executive officers, who are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by unum group's board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. name age position richard p. mckenney 50 president and chief executive officer and a director john f. mcgarry 61 executive vice president and chief financial officer lisa g. iglesias 53 executive vice president, general counsel michael q. simonds 45 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us timothy g. arnold 56 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life peter g. o'donnell 52 executive vice president, chief executive officer, unum international elizabeth a. ahmed 44 executive vice president, people and communications puneet bhasin 56 executive vice president, chief information and digital officer breege a. farrell 59 executive vice president, chief investment officer mr. mckenney became president in april 2015 and chief executive officer in may 2015. he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer from august 2009 until april 2015, having joined the company in july 2009. before joining the company, mr. mckenney served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of sun life financial inc., an international financial services company, from february 2007, having joined that company as executive vice president in september 2006. mr. mcgarry became executive vice president and chief financial officer in april 2015. he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, closed block operations from august 2013 to april 2015, after having served as executive vice president, individual disability and long-term care closed block operations from september 2012. he previously served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk from july 2010, and as senior vice president, benefits, individual disability, and national client group business, unum us from january 2010. prior to that, he served in various other capacities within unum us, including as senior vice president, benefits operations and risk management from march 2008 to january 2010, and as senior vice president, benefits operations from january 2006 to march 2008. mr. mcgarry originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1986. ms. iglesias was named executive vice president, general counsel upon joining the company in january 2015. she served as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary of wellcare health plans, inc., a managed care company, from february 2012 to december 2014, having first joined wellcare in february 2010 as vice president, securities and assistant general counsel. prior to that, she served as general counsel and corporate secretary for nordstrom, inc., a fashion specialty retailer, from 2007 to 2008, and as general counsel and secretary of spherion corporation, a recruiting and staffing company, from 1999 to 2007. mr. simonds was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us in july 2013, after having served as senior vice president and chief operating officer, unum us from june 2012. he previously served as senior vice president, growth operations, unum us from july 2010, and as senior vice president and chief marketing officer, unum us from march 2008. mr. simonds originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1994, left the company in 2000 to further his education, and rejoined the company in 2003 after serving as a consultant with mckinsey &amp; company, a global management consulting firm. mr. arnold was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life in january 2015, after having served as executive vice president, president, colonial life from july 2014. he previously served as senior vice president, sales and marketing, colonial life from august 2012, as senior vice president, chief operations officer, colonial life from july 2011, and as senior vice president, integrated underwriting, unum us from may 2010. mr. arnold originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1985. mr. o'donnell serves as executive vice president, chief executive officer, unum international, having been named to this position in october 2018 when the reporting segment was previously known as unum uk. he previously served as president and chief executive officer, unum uk, from september 2012, after having joined the company as unum limited's chief financial officer in 2010. prior to joining unum limited, mr. o'donnell served as director of group finance at prudential 18 plc, an international financial services company, from may 2008 to may 2010. he served as finance director at royal &amp; sunalliance plc, an international financial services company, from may 2005 to may 2008. ms. ahmed was named executive vice president, people and communications upon joining the company in october 2018. she served as executive vice president, chief human resources officer, amtrust financial services, inc., a multinational insurance holding company, from may 2015 to october 2018. prior to that, she served as vice president of human resources at equity trust company, a financial services company, from may 2012 to may 2015, and as senior vice president of human resources at pnc bank, a diversified financial services institution, from august 2008 to may 2012. mr. bhasin was named executive vice president, chief information and digital officer after joining the company in march 2018. he served as executive vice president, corporate operations and recycling at waste management, inc., a waste management environmental services provider, from november 2015 to march 2017. while at waste management, he also served as senior vice president, corporate operations from november 2014, chief information officer and senior vice president, technology, logistics and customer service from august 2012, and senior vice president and chief information officer from december 2009. ms. farrell was named executive vice president, chief investment officer in august 2013, after having joined the company as senior vice president and chief investment officer in april 2011. before joining the company, she held a number of executive-level investment positions within the allstate corporation, a personal lines insurer, including as senior managing director of allstate investments, llc and certain affiliated companies from january 2010 to april 2011, and as managing director of these companies from august 2004 to january 2010. item 1a. risk factors we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. discussed below are factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases. see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1. sustained periods of low interest rates in the long-term investment market may adversely affect our reported net investment income and the discount rates used in reserving for our insurance products and projecting our pension obligations, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. declines in interest rates and/or the continuance of the current level of low interest rates and yields on fixed income investments may cause the rates of return on our investment portfolio to decrease more than expected, leading to lower net investment income than assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products. an interest, or discount, rate is used in calculating reserves for our insurance products. we set our reserve discount rate assumptions based on our current and expected future investment yield for assets supporting the reserves, considering current and expected future market conditions. if the discount rate assumed in our reserve calculations is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets will not earn enough investment income to support our future claim payments. in that case, the reserves may eventually be insufficient, resulting in the need to increase our reserves and/or increase our capital contributions to our insurance subsidiaries, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. our net periodic benefit costs and the value of our benefit obligations for our pension plans are determined based on a set of economic and demographic assumptions that represent our best estimate of future expected experience. major assumptions used in accounting for these plans include the expected discount (interest) rate and the long-term rate of return on plan assets. we set the discount rate assumption at the measurement date for each of our plans to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality fixed income corporate debt instruments matched against the timing and amounts of projected future benefits. a lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases our costs. our expectations for the future investment returns on plan assets are based on a combination of historical market performance, current market conditions, and future capital market assumptions obtained from external consultants and economists. the actual rate of return on plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period. increases or decreases in long-term interest rates as well as equity market volatility will impact the fair value of our plan assets and may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. 19 see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, "interest rate risk" contained herein in item 7a, and note 9 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. actual experience may differ from our reserve assumptions which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. historical results may not be indicative of future performance due to, among other things, changes in our mix of business, re-pricing of certain lines of business, or any number of economic cyclical effects on our business. reserves, whether calculated under gaap or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. actual experience may differ from our reserve assumptions. there can be no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. life expectancies may continue to increase, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives disability or long-term care benefits and could result in a change in mortality assumptions and an increase in reserves for these and other long-tailed products. adjustments to reserve amounts may also be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors); premium rate increases; persistency; policy benefit offsets, including those for social security and other government-based welfare benefits; and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and notes 1 and 6 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. unfavorable economic conditions may result in lower sales, lower premium growth and persistency, higher claims incidence, and longer claims duration, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, primarily in the united states, the united kingdom, poland, and to a lesser extent, the broader global financial markets. negative developments in the capital markets and/or the general economy could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in particular, factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses. given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, new product sales may be adversely affected. our premium growth may also be negatively impacted by lower premium growth from existing customers due to lower salary growth and lower growth in the number of employees covered under an existing policy. in addition, during such periods we may experience higher claims incidence, longer claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation. changes in laws and regulations that affect our industry or the customers to whom we sell our products may affect the cost or demand for our products, increase capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and adversely affect our profitability, liquidity, or growth. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the united states and abroad. the primary purpose of insurance regulation is to protect policyholders, not stockholders. to that end, applicable laws establish regulatory authorities, including state insurance departments in the united states, the pra in the united kingdom, and the knf in poland, with broad administrative powers over many aspects of the insurance business. for example, our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, we and our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. these laws and regulations can be complex and subject to differing interpretations and are regularly re-examined. existing or future laws and regulations, and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. for example, they may restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us, 20 restrict transactions between subsidiaries and/or between us and our subsidiaries, and may require contributions of capital by us to our insurance subsidiaries even if we are otherwise in compliance with stated requirements. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws or regulations could result in restrictions on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which they operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. it is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled and operate. we cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. for instance, the naic or state regulators may adopt revisions to the rbc formula, the pra may revise its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, the iais may adopt capital requirements to which we could be subject, or rating agencies may incorporate higher capital thresholds into their quantitative analyses, thus requiring additional capital contributions by us to our insurance subsidiaries. increased financial services regulation, which could include activities undertaken by the naic and regulatory authorities in the u.k., poland, and the eu may impose greater quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and disclosure requirements and may impact the business strategies, capital requirements, and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. the united kingdom's financial ombudsman service, which was established to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses providing financial services, and the fca, which has rule-making, investigative, and enforcement powers to protect consumers, may hamper our ability to do business, which could have a material adverse effect on our u.k. operations. we use affiliated captive reinsurers for the limited purpose of reinsuring risks attributable to specified policies issued or reinsured by our insurance subsidiaries in order to effectively manage risks in connection with certain blocks of our business as well as to enhance our capital efficiency. if we were required to discontinue use of the captive reinsurers or to alter the structure of the captive reinsurance arrangements, our ability to maintain current rbc ratios and/or our capital deployment activities could be adversely affected. changes in u.s. programs such as healthcare reform and financial services sector reform may compete with or diminish the need or demand for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace. the u.s. social security disability insurance program may not be sustainable, which may adversely affect the level of our disability claim payments and reserves. legislative changes related to pension funding requirements could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and our profitability. changes in tax laws and other regulations or interpretations of such laws or regulations could unfavorably impact our corporate taxes. in addition, changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. negotiations regarding the u.k.'s plans to leave the eu on march 29, 2019 are ongoing and the anticipated resolutions remain uncertain. the magnitude and longevity of potential negative economic impacts on the growth of our unum uk business will depend on whether an agreement is reached between the u.k. and eu as a result of exit negotiations and, if reached, the nature of the agreement and the resulting response of the u.k. marketplace. we do not expect that the underlying operations of our u.k. business to be significantly impacted by the u.k.'s exit from the eu. the insurance policies issued by our u.k. insurance subsidiary are almost exclusively written in the u.k. and cover policyholders based in the u.k. these policies will not be affected by the u.k.'s exit nor will we need to obtain additional insurance licenses to be able to continue writing these policies. for the small amount of contracts and coverages provided to companies and individuals outside of the u.k., we have developed contingency plans that could be invoked following the u.k.'s exit. the employees that support our u.k. business reside in the u.k. and will not need to change residence status after the exit. we may experience volatility in the fair values of our investments in u.k. and eu-based issuers, but we do not expect a material increase in other-than-temporary impairments or defaults, nor do we believe this volatility will impact our ability to hold these investments. we may also experience higher claims incidence in the near term, which is generally correlated to periods of economic uncertainty. additionally, it is possible that there are tax impacts associated with the exit such as revised or new tax regulations. the continued dampening of growth due to the current disruption and uncertainty in the u.k. economy may lead to lower near-term sales and premium growth. there are currently no indications that capital requirements for our u.k. operations will change, but economic conditions may cause volatility in our solvency ratios. our reported consolidated financial results may be unfavorably impacted by the weakening of the british pound sterling relative to preceding periods. dodd-frank directs various government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process that continues to develop. as a result of the regulations implemented thus far, regulations directed at some derivative activities and the implementation of central clearing rules have increased the cost of some hedging activities primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements. we cannot predict the requirements of the remaining regulations that might 21 ultimately be adopted, whether existing requirements will be repealed or changed, or how or whether such regulations will affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition, require us to raise additional capital, or result in a downgrade of our credit ratings. most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by the employee retirement income security act (erisa). changes to erisa enacted by congress or through judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability. the insurance departments in jurisdictions wherein our insurance subsidiaries conduct business may limit our ability to obtain rate increases under guaranteed renewable contracts or could require changes in rates and/or benefits to meet minimum loss ratio requirements which could negatively impact the profitability of our products. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. these actions could result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in our claims handling or other business practices, changes in procedures for the identification and payment to the states of benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, increases to reserving requirements, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, assessments by tax authorities or other governing agencies, fines, and other administrative action, which could injure our reputation, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, and/or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and notes 7 and 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. a cyber attack or other security breach could disrupt our operations, result in the unauthorized disclosure or loss of confidential data, damage our reputation or relationships, and expose us to significant financial and legal liability, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we store confidential information about our business and our policyholders, employees, agents and others on our information technology systems, including proprietary and personally identifiable information. as part of our normal business operations, we use this information and engage third-party providers, including outsourcing, cloud computing, and other business partners, that store, access, process, and transmit such information on our behalf. we devote significant resources and employ security measures to help protect our information technology systems and confidential information, and we have programs in place to detect, contain, and respond to information security incidents. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we and our third-party providers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. in addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties or through open source solutions may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise our information security. unauthorized parties, whether within or outside our company, may disrupt or gain access to our systems, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through human error, misfeasance, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceit, including break-ins, use of stolen credentials, social engineering, phishing, or other cyber attacks, computer viruses, malicious codes, and similar means of unauthorized and destructive tampering. we and our third-party providers have experienced and likely will continue to experience information security incidents from time to time. although known incidents have not had a material effect on our business or financial condition, there is no assurance that our security systems and measures will be able to prevent, mitigate, or remediate future incidents that could have such an effect. a successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our information technology systems, or those of third parties with whom we do business, could cause serious negative consequences for us, including significant disruption of our operations, unauthorized disclosure or loss of confidential information, harm to our brand or reputation, loss of customers and revenues, violations of privacy and other laws, and exposure to litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement proceedings, fines, and potentially criminal proceedings and penalties. if we are unaware of the incident for some time after it occurs, our exposure could increase. in addition, the costs to address or remediate systems disruptions or security threats or vulnerabilities, whether before or after an incident, could be significant. as we continue to build our digital capabilities and 22 focus on enhancing the customer experience, the amount of information that we retain and share with third parties is likely to grow, increasing the cost to prevent data security breaches and the cost and potential consequences of such breaches. an information technology systems failure could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators. further, successful cyber-attacks at other large financial institutions or other market participants, whether or not we are affected, could lead to a general loss of customer and investor confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect us. although we have insurance against some cyber risks and attacks, we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that exceed our policy limits, are subject to deductibles or are not covered under any of our current insurance policies. the failure of our business recovery and incident management processes to resume our business operations in the event of a natural catastrophe, cyber attack, or other event could adversely affect our profitability, results of operations, or financial condition. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, a cyber attack, cyber security breach or other information technology systems failure, a terrorist attack, or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those problems affect our information technology systems and destroy valuable data or result in a significant failure of our internal control environment. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our employees were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. the failure of our information technology and/or disaster recovery systems for any reason could cause significant interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers' operations and result in the loss, theft, or failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions, legal claims, and increased expenses, and lead to a loss of customers and revenues. in addition to interest rate risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. default risk our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer's industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, unforeseen accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer's marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations. our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk. events or developments, such as economic conditions that impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio. events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector. a default results in the recognition of an impairment loss on the investment. a default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us. the probability of credit downgrades and defaults increases when the fixed income markets experience periods of volatility and illiquidity. credit spread risk our exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable u.s. treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads may unfavorably impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of the investment portfolio and may adversely impact liquidity. credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities. 23 valuation risk we report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at fair value. valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, particularly during periods of market disruption, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we evaluate our investment portfolio for impairments. there can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken. additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. any event reducing the value of our securities other than on a temporary basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. market timing and liquidity risk while we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, there may at times be a lack of appropriate investments in the market which can be acquired. in addition, we may, in certain circumstances, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. there may also be a limited market for certain of our investments, such as our private placement fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, and policy loans, which makes them more illiquid. in periods of market volatility or disruption, other of our securities may also experience reduced liquidity. if events occur wherein we need to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment or need to quickly sell securities which are illiquid, market prices may be lower than what we might realize under normal circumstances, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of our investments and derivatives. competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability. all of our businesses are highly competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, the quality of our customer's experience regarding service and claims management, integrated product choices, enrollment capabilities, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. we compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability. all areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of the group products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market. there is a risk that our customers may be able to obtain more favorable terms or improved technology solutions from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us, particularly if industry pricing levels do not align with our view of adequate premium rates. we are operating in a dynamic competitive environment of both traditional and non-traditional competitors, with changes in product offerings, enrollment capabilities, and technology solutions. the level and intensity of competition may also grow due to existing competitors becoming more aggressive, and an increase in merger and acquisition activity which may result in larger competitors with greater financial resources. there are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies and new competitors in the future. see "competition" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. a decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may adversely affect our competitive position, our ability to hedge our risks, and our cost of capital or ability to raise capital, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. a downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect our relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. a downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to unum group can be expected to adversely affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise additional capital. if we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our derivatives financial instrument contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts. such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks. 24 see "ratings" contained herein in item 1 and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. the failure to effectively execute upgrades to or replacements of information technology systems could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we rely heavily on the effective operation of our information technology systems to administer our business and support the investments we are making to offer digital capabilities to enhance our customers' experience. although we believe we have information technology systems which adequately support our business needs, we continually upgrade our existing information technology systems and acquire or develop new systems to keep pace with the rapidly changing business and technology environment. there are risks involved with upgrading or replacing information technology systems, including, but not limited to, data loss, data errors, and disruption to our operations. we seek to monitor and control our exposure to the risks arising out of these activities through our risk control framework which encompasses a variety of reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes, and other mechanisms. events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. there are many events which may harm our reputation, including, but not limited to, those discussed in this item 1a regarding regulatory investigations, legal proceedings, and cyber or other information security incidents. in addition, as an insurance company, we are paid to accept certain risks. those who conduct our business, including executive officers and members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, and to some extent, independent agents and brokers, do so in part by making decisions that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline, maintaining effective claim management and customer service performance, managing our investment portfolio and derivatives trading activities, delivering effective technology solutions, complying with established sales practices, executing our capital management strategy, exiting a line of business and/or pursuing strategic growth initiatives, and other decisions. although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks or unintentionally failing to comply with internal policies and practices such that errors occur, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures will be effective. if our employees and business associates take excessive risks and/or fail to comply with internal policies and practices, the impact of those events may damage our market position and reputation. depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital and/or increase our cost of capital. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 and note 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on regulatory matters and legal proceedings. we provide a broad array of disability, long-term care, group life, and voluntary insurance products that are affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. disability insurance disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence and recoveries for disability insurance. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses. claim durations may be extended by medical improvements which could extend life expectancies. the relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. the pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ among product classes. our individual noncancelable 25 disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business. guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market. long-term care insurance long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products. this creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval by our states of domicile and may also be subject to approval by jurisdictions in which our policyholders reside. the rate approval process can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all, and the rate increases ultimately approved may be favorable or unfavorable relative to assumptions used to establish our reserves. we monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends. changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves. mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives long-term care benefits and may subject more policyholders to advanced aging and an associated increase in claims incidence. medical advances may continue to have an impact on claim incidence and duration, both favorable and unfavorable. due to the long duration of the product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows are difficult to match to those of our maturing liabilities. sustained periods of low or declining interest rates could result in increases in reserves and adversely affect our results of operations. group life insurance group life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, and pandemic health events, which may also affect the cost of and availability of reinsurance coverage. voluntary products voluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics. our voluntary life insurance products generally include interest sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate. it is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate. the non-life contracts are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1 and "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. changes in accounting standards may materially affect our financial statements. our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, in the united states, the united kingdom, and poland, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the u.s. financial accounting standards board (fasb), the u.k. accounting standards board (asb), and the naic. accounting standards issued by the fasb and asb may be influenced by the international accounting standards board (iasb). future accounting standards we adopt, including the fasb's accounting standard update related to long-duration target improvements for insurance contracts, will change current accounting and disclosure requirements applicable to our financial statements. such changes may have a material effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition. see note 1 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information regarding accounting updates. 26 our risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. we have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, and operations risks, which ultimately impact our reputational risk. however, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for monitoring and managing risk may not fully predict or mitigate future exposures. see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further information about our risk management program. litigation and contingencies are common in our businesses and may result in financial losses and/or harm to our reputation. we are, and in the future may be, defendants in a number of litigation matters, and the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. an estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings. as part of our normal operations in managing claims, we are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. we expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and note 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings. reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. as part of our overall risk management and capital management strategies, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and may impact the level of capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business, result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue, and increase our capital requirements. the collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the effectiveness of our hedging programs may be affected by changes in the economic environment, changes in interest rates, capital market volatility, non-performance by our counterparties, changes in the level of required collateral, or regulation, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we use derivative financial instruments to help us manage certain risks related to our business operations, primarily interest rate risk, risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities, and foreign currency risk. factors associated with derivative financial instruments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. ineffectiveness of our hedges due to changes in expected future events, such as the risk created by uncertainty in the economic environment or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance 27 by our counterparties, many of which are financial institutions. non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind hedges, and we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged. under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral, which may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral. changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute hedging strategies due to the increased economic cost of derivatives, primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements. we are monitoring the developments surrounding the transition from the london interbank offered rate (libor) expected to occur in 2021 and the impact, if any, to our existing and future derivative financial instruments and our hedging programs. currency translation could materially impact our reported operating results. the functional currency of our u.k. and polish operations is the british pound sterling and the polish zloty, respectively. fluctuations in exchange rates have an effect on our reported financial results, which may be unfavorably impacted when the functional currency weakens. however, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert our functional currency into dollars. as a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k or poland. unum group depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it so that it can meet its obligations and pay dividends. our ability to transfer funds to unum group may be impaired by adverse financial results or a change in capital requirements. accordingly, internal sources of capital and liquidity may not always be sufficient. if we need to seek external capital, adverse market conditions may affect our access to capital or our cost of capital. unum group is a holding company for insurance and other subsidiaries and has no significant operations of its own. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance laws and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds or other assets to affiliates, including to unum group. the level of earnings and capital in our subsidiaries, as well as business conditions and rating agency considerations, could impact our insurance and other subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to unum group, which could impair our ability to pay dividends to unum group's common stockholders, meet our debt and other payment obligations, and/or repurchase shares of unum group's common stock. the use of funds held by unum group as consideration in any acquisition could affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. a change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations. deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in this item 1a may impose higher capital or reserve requirements on our insurance subsidiaries, increase collateral requirements for certain of our derivatives transactions, and/or implement other requirements which could unfavorably affect our liquidity. without sufficient liquidity, our ability to maintain and grow our operations would be limited. if our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us. if our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus is considered important not only by us but by insurance regulatory authorities in the u.s., the pra in the u.k., the knf in poland, and the rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary's ability to distribute funds to our holding companies. obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be challenging in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty. the markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. the availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock in unum group. 28 we rely on our credit facility as a potential source of liquidity. our right to borrow funds under this facility is subject to financial covenants, negative covenants, and events of default. our ability to borrow under this facility is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facility or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments would restrict our ability to access this facility when needed, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we are also monitoring the developments surrounding the transition from libor to determine the impact, if any, to our existing and future debt arrangements. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1,"liquidity and capital resources" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and notes 8 and 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. we have assets which may not be fully recoverable or realizable, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. if our business does not perform well or as initially anticipated in our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment loss on intangible assets or long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset. we have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (dac), value of business acquired (voba), and goodwill. dac and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for dac and voba is performed on an annual basis. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either dac and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary, we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate and information technology software, also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we may be unable to recover the carrying amount. we assess our deferred tax assets to determine if they are realizable. factors in our determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate future taxable income. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established with a corresponding charge to net income. charges such as accelerated amortization, impairment losses, or the establishment of valuation allowances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 7, and 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of certain assets in our investment portfolio, disrupt our operations, or result in higher claim costs. the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military actions, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in the global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, business disruption, and reduced economic activity. some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad. in addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. beyond obtaining insurance coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events 29 away from us. we purchase reinsurance protection against catastrophic disaster events, including terrorism. the continued threat of terrorism could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. see "reinsurance" contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 90 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to various market risk exposures, including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding our risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating our overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a, "investments" contained herein in item 7, and notes 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate changes results from our holdings of financial instruments such as fixed rate investments, derivatives, and interest sensitive liabilities. fixed rate investments include fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, and short-term investments. fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, public utility bonds, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and redeemable preferred stock, all of which are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations. certain of our financial instruments, fixed maturity securities and derivatives, are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of these financial instruments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. a rise in interest rates may decrease the net unrealized gain related to these financial instruments, but may improve our ability to earn higher rates of return on new purchases of fixed maturity securities. conversely, a decline in interest rates may increase the net unrealized gain, but new securities may be purchased at lower rates of return. although changes in fair value of fixed maturity securities and derivatives due to changes in interest rates may impact amounts reported in our consolidated balance sheets, these changes will not cause an economic gain or loss unless we sell investments, terminate derivative positions, determine that an investment is other than temporarily impaired, or determine that a derivative instrument is no longer an effective hedge. other fixed rate investments, such as mortgage loans and policy loans, are carried at amortized cost and unpaid balances, respectively, rather than fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. these investments may have fair values substantially higher or lower than the carrying values reflected in our balance sheets. a change in interest rates could impact our financial position if we sold our mortgage loan investments at times of low market value. a change in interest rates would not impact our financial position at repayment of policy loans, as ultimately the cash surrender values or death benefits would be reduced for the carrying value of any outstanding policy loans. carrying amounts for short-term investments approximate fair value, and we believe we have minimal interest rate risk exposure from these investments. 90 we believe that the risk of being forced to liquidate investments or terminate derivative positions is minimal, primarily due to the level of capital at our insurance subsidiaries, the level of cash and marketable securities at our holding companies, and our investment strategy which we believe provides for adequate cash flows to meet the funding requirements of our business. we may in certain circumstances, however, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. although our policy benefits are primarily in the form of claim payments and we therefore have minimal exposure to the policy withdrawal risk associated with deposit products such as individual life policies or annuities, the fair values of liabilities under all insurance contracts are taken into consideration in our overall management of interest rate risk, which minimizes exposure to changing interest rates through the matching of investment cash flows with amounts due under insurance contracts. changes in interest rates and individuals' behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. we actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to limit interest rate risk. due to the long duration of our long-term care product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. we model and test asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios enables us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to limit the risk of disadvantageous outcomes. we use this analysis in determining hedging strategies and utilizing derivative financial instruments. we use current and forward interest rate swaps, options on forward interest rate swaps, and forward treasury locks to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. debt is not carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. if we modify or replace existing debt instruments at current market rates, we may incur a gain or loss on the transaction. we believe our debt-related risk to changes in interest rates is relatively minimal. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. we measure our financial instruments' market risk related to changes in interest rates using a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates potential changes in fair values as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 based on a hypothetical immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels. the selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. the hypothetical potential changes in fair value of our financial instruments at december 31, 2018 and 2017 are shown as follows: december 31, 2018 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 43,011.7 $ 39,532.1 $ (3,479.6 ) mortgage loans 2,317.4 2,179.6 (137.8 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 381.8 354.2 (27.6 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and deferred acquisition costs (2) $ (2,986.8 ) $ (470.7 ) $ 2,516.1 long-term debt (3,069.2 ) (2,866.2 ) 203.0 derivatives (1) swaps $ 799.2 $ (7.1 ) $ (29.1 ) $ (22.0 ) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (31.1 ) (32.5 ) (1.4 ) 91 december 31, 2017 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 45,457.8 $ 41,706.3 $ (3,751.5 ) mortgage loans 2,306.2 2,175.6 (130.6 ) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 370.0 342.4 (27.6 ) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and deferred acquisition costs (2) $ (4,770.3 ) $ (2,645.8 ) $ 2,124.5 long-term debt (3,048.7 ) (2,819.0 ) 229.7 derivatives (1) swaps $ 904.5 $ (32.7 ) $ (54.2 ) $ (21.5 ) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (15.9 ) (21.0 ) (5.1 ) (1) these financial instruments are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates may affect the fair value at which the item is reported in our consolidated balance sheets. the corresponding offsetting change is reported in other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes, except for changes in the fair value of derivatives accounted for as fair value hedges or derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, the offset of which is reported as a component of net realized investment gain or loss. (2) the adjustment to reserves and deferred acquisition costs for unrealized investment gains and losses reflects the adjustments to policyholder liabilities and deferred acquisition costs that would be necessary if the unrealized investment gains and losses related to the fixed maturity securities had been realized. changes in this adjustment are also reported as a component of other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities was estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values shown in the chart above for all other items were determined using discounted cash flow analyses. because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. we remain in an environment of low interest rates, which continues to place pressure on our profit margins as we invest cash flows to support our businesses. we estimate that we will have approximately $2.9 billion of investable cash flows in 2019. assuming interest rates and credit spreads remain constant throughout 2020 at the january 2019 market levels, our net investment income would decrease by approximately $0.1 million in 2019 and $1.2 million in 2020 as a result of the investment of cash flows at levels below our current expectations. this interest rate scenario does not give consideration to the effect of other factors which could impact these results, such as changes in the bond market and changes in hedging strategies and positions, nor does it consider the potential change to our discount rate reserve assumptions and any mitigating factors such as pricing adjustments. in addition, a continued low or declining interest rate environment may also result in an increase in the net periodic benefit costs for our pension plans, but we do not believe it would materially affect net income in 2019 or 2020. 92 foreign currency risk the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. the functional currency of our operations in poland is the polish zloty. we are exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in the british pound sterling and polish zloty to u.s. dollar exchange rates primarily as they relate to the translation of the financial results of our u.k. and polish operations. fluctuations in exchange rates have an effect on our reported financial results. we do not hedge against the possible impact of this risk. because we do not actually convert our functional currency into dollars except for a limited number of transactions, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue and not a reflection of operations or profitability in our u.k. or polish operations. assuming the pound to dollar exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2018 and 2017 levels, stockholders' equity as reported in u.s. dollars would have been lower by approximately $62 million and $71 million, respectively. assuming the pound to dollar average exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the actual average exchange rates for 2018 and 2017 , adjusted operating income, as reported in u.s. dollars, would have decreased approximately $11 million in each year. our polish operations are currently not a significant portion of our overall operations, any changes in the dollar exchange rate would not represent a material impact to our reported financial results in u.s. dollars. dividends paid by unum limited are generally held at our u.k. finance subsidiary or our u.k. holding company. if these funds are repatriated to our u.s. holding company, we would at that time be subject to foreign currency risk as the value of the dividend, when converted into u.s. dollars, would be dependent upon the foreign exchange rate at the time of conversion. we are also exposed to foreign currency risk related to certain foreign investment securities denominated in local currencies. we use foreign currency interest rate swaps to hedge or minimize the foreign exchange risk associated with these instruments. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "consolidated operating results" and "unum international segment" contained herein in item 7 for further information concerning foreign currency translation. risk management effectively taking and managing risks is essential to the success of our company. to facilitate this effort, we have a formal enterprise risk management (erm) program, with a framework comprising the following key components: risk-aware culture and governance risk appetite policy risk identification and prioritization risk and capital modeling risk management activities risk reporting our erm framework is the ongoing system of people, processes, and tools across our company under which we intend to function consistently and collectively to identify and assess risks and opportunities, to manage all material risks within our risk appetite, and to contribute to strategic decision making. with the goal of maximizing shareholder value, the primary objectives of our erm framework are to support unum group in meeting its operational and financial objectives, maintaining liquidity, optimizing capital, and protecting franchise value. risk-aware culture and governance we employ a risk management model under which risk-based decisions are made daily on a local level. to achieve long-term success, we believe risk management must be the responsibility of all employees. the individual and collective decisions of our employees play a key role in successfully managing our overall risk profile. we strive for a culture of integrity, commitment, and accountability and we believe these values allow our employees to feel comfortable identifying issues as well as taking ownership for addressing potential problems. our employees have an obligation to report issues that they believe will have a material financial, reputational, or regulatory impact to the company. we offer several channels for employees to report their issues or concerns and encourage employees to use the channel that is most appropriate for their situation. we recommend that an employee initially discuss their concerns with their manager; however, if that channel is not appropriate an employee may use any of the other reporting channels available. 93 by employing various approaches, we have established a culture that supports candid discussion and reporting of risks while empowering our employees to take ownership for risk management. our culture is reinforced by our system of risk governance. we employ a multi-layered risk control system. our three lines of defense model is depicted below. 1st line: own and manage 2nd line: oversee 3rd line: independent assurance business processes and procedures employed throughout the company through which management assumes and monitors significant risks management committees chartered with oversight of activities within the 1st and 2nd lines of defense, mitigation of substantial exposures, and management of emerging risks independent assurance on the effectiveness of governance, risk management, and internal control performed by internal audit and the board of directors business units are primarily responsible for managing their principal risks. our risk committees and other management committees serve risk and control functions responsible for providing risk oversight, or the second line of risk control. our internal audit team provides periodic independent reviews and assurance activities serving as our third line of risk control. in addition, our board has an active role, as a whole and through its committees, in overseeing management of our risks. the board is responsible for the oversight of strategic risk and regularly reviews information regarding our capital, liquidity, and operations, as well as the risks associated with each. the risk and finance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of our risk management process, including financial risk, operational risk, and any other risk not specifically assigned to another board committee. it also is responsible for oversight of risks associated with investments, capital and financing plans and activities, and related financial matters, including matters pertaining to our closed block segment. the audit committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to financial reporting risk and certain operational risks. cyber-related operational risk is the joint responsibility of the risk and finance committee and the audit committee. the human capital committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to our compensation plans and programs. the regulatory compliance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks related to regulatory, compliance, policy, and legal matters, both current and emerging, and whether of a local, state, federal, or international nature. while each committee is responsible for evaluating certain risks and overseeing the management of such risks, the entire board is regularly informed through committee reports about such risks in addition to the risk information it receives directly. our executive risk management committee is responsible for overseeing our enterprise-wide risk management program. the chief risk officer, who is a member of the executive risk management committee, has primary responsibility for our erm program and is supported by corporate risk committees and by the risk committees of our operating segments. operating segment risk committees for unum us, unum international, colonial life, and closed block are responsible for oversight of risks specific to their businesses. these committees are responsible for identifying, measuring, reporting, and managing strategic insurance and operational risks within their respective areas, consistent with enterprise risk management guidance. corporate risk committees and other management committees oversee the operational, global technology services, investment, and capital management risks on a corporate level. risk appetite policy our risk appetite policy describes the types of risks we are willing to take, as well as the amount of enterprise risk exposure we deem acceptable in pursuit of our goals, with an objective of clearly defining boundaries for our risk-taking activities. the starting point of our philosophy and approach to our erm strategy is our corporate strategy. in contrast to many multi-line peer companies, we do not offer retirement savings, traditional medical benefits, or property and casualty insurance. our corporate strategy is focused on providing group, individual, and voluntary benefits, either as stand-alone products or combined with other coverages, that create comprehensive benefits solutions for employers. we have market leadership positions in the product lines we offer and believe this combination of focused expertise and experience is a competitive advantage and forms the foundation of our approach to risk management. we believe our sound and consistent business practices, strong internal compliance program, and comprehensive risk management strategy enable us to operate efficiently and to identify and address potential areas of risk in our business. we take and manage risks to achieve our business and strategic objectives, and our risk appetite statement sets boundaries for risk-taking activities that link earnings, capital, and operational processes, as well as summarizes our most material risk limits and controls. 94 we monitor our risk profile against our established risk tolerance and limits. risks falling outside our risk tolerance and limits are reported to the applicable governance group, where decisions are made pertaining to acceptance of the risk or implementation of remediation plans or corrective actions as deemed appropriate by that governance group. risk identification and prioritization risk identification and prioritization is an ongoing process, whereby we identify and assess our risk positions and exposures, including notable risk events. additionally, we identify emerging risks and analyze how material future risks might affect us. knowing the potential risks we face, allows us to monitor and manage their potential effects including adjusting our strategies as appropriate and holding capital levels which provide financial flexibility. risk and other management committees have primary responsibility for identifying and prioritizing risks within their respective areas. we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. for additional information on certain risks that may adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1 and "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. risk modeling and controls we assess material risks, including how they affect us and how individual risks interrelate, to provide valuable information to management in order that they may effectively manage our risks. we use qualitative and quantitative approaches to assess existing and emerging risks and to develop mitigating strategies to limit our exposure to both. we utilize stress testing and scenario analysis for risk management and to shape our business, financial, and strategic planning activities. both are key components of our risk appetite policy and play an important role in monitoring, assessing, managing, and mitigating our primary risk exposures. in particular, stress testing of our capital and liquidity management strategies enables us to identify areas of high exposure, assess mitigating actions, develop contingency plans, and guide decisions around our target capital and liquidity levels. for example, we periodically perform stress tests on certain categories of assets or liabilities to support development of capital and liquidity risk contingency plans. these tests help ensure that we have a buffer to support our operations in uncertain times and financial flexibility to respond to market opportunities. stress testing is also central to reserve adequacy testing, cash flow testing, and asset and liability management. in addition, we aim to constantly improve our capital modeling techniques and methodologies that are used to determine a level of capital that is commensurate with our risk profile and to ensure compliance with evolving regulatory and rating agency requirements. our capital modeling reflects appropriate aggregation of risks and diversification benefits resulting from our mix of products and business units. our internal capital modeling and allocation aids us in making significant business decisions including strategic planning, capital management, risk limit determination, reinsurance purchases, hedging activities, asset allocation, pricing, and corporate development. risk management activities we accept and manage strategic, credit, and insurance risks in accordance with our corporate strategy, investment policy, and annual business plans. the following fundamental principles are embedded in our risk management efforts across our company. we believe in the benefits of specialization and a focused business strategy. we seek profitable risk-taking in areas where we have established risk management skills and capabilities. we seek to manage our exposure to insurance risk through a combination of prudent underwriting with effective risk selection, maintaining pricing discipline, sound reserving practices, claims operational effectiveness, and selective use of reinsurance. detailed underwriting guidelines and claim policies are tools used to manage our insurance risk exposure. we also monitor exposures against internally prescribed limits, and we diversify to reduce potential concentration risk and volatility. we maintain a detailed set of investment policies and guidelines, including fundamental credit analysis, that are used to manage our credit risk exposure and diversify our risks across asset classes and issuers. 95 we value the importance of managing cyber-related risks, and have policies and procedures in place to help protect against insider trading and allow for timely disclosure of material cybersecurity events. finally, we foster a risk-aware culture that embeds our corporate values and our code of conduct in our daily operations and preserves our reputation with customers and other key stakeholders. we monitor a composite set of operational risk metrics that measure operating effectiveness from the customer perspective. risk reporting regular internal and external risk reporting is an integral part of our erm framework. internally, erm reports are a standard part of our quarterly senior management and board meetings. the reports summarize our existing and emerging risk exposures, as well as report against the tolerances and limits defined by our risk appetite policy. externally, we are subject to a number of regulatory and rating agency risk examinations, and risk reports are often included. annually, we file our own risk and solvency assessment (orsa) summary report with the applicable insurance regulators for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries. this report provides strong evidence of the strengths of our erm framework, measurement approaches, key assumptions utilized in assessing our risks, and prospective solvency assessments under both normal and stressed conditions. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 for additional information regarding the orsa. 96risk factors 19 competition there is significant competition among insurance companies for the types of products we sell, particularly in the voluntary benefits market. we are operating in a dynamic competitive environment of both traditional and non-traditional competitors, with changes in product offerings, enrollment services, and technology solutions. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, quality of the customer experience regarding service and claims management, integrated product choices, enrollment capabilities, financial strength ratings, claims-paying ratings, and a solution to allow our customers to comply with the changing laws and regulations related to family medical leave benefits. in the individual and group disability markets, we compete in the united states with a number of major companies and regionally with other companies offering specialty products. our principal competitors for our other products, including group life and the product offerings sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction, include the largest insurance companies in the united states. some of these companies have more competitive pricing or have higher claims-paying ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. in the united kingdom and poland, where we sell both individual and group products, we compete with a mix of large internationally recognized providers and strong local carriers. all areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of our products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market. there is a risk that our customers may be able to obtain more favorable terms or improved technology solutions from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us. the effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. we must attract and retain independent agents and brokers to actively market our products. strong competition exists among insurers for agents and brokers. we compete with other insurers for sales agents and brokers primarily on the basis of our product offerings, financial strength, support services, and compensation. sales of our products could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and brokers. for further discussion, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. 12 regulation we and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive and comprehensive supervision and regulation in the united states, the united kingdom, and poland. the laws and regulations with which we must comply are complex and subject to change. new or existing laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. insurance regulation and oversight our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and oversight by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they do business and by the u.s. department of labor (dol) on a national basis, primarily for the protection of policyholders. state insurance regulators in the u.s. generally have broad powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business, including the power to: license and examine insurance companies; regulate and supervise sales practices and market conduct; license agents and brokers; approve policy forms; approve premium rates and subsequent increases thereon for certain insurance products; establish reserve requirements and solvency standards; place limitations on shareholder dividends; prescribe the form and content of required financial statements and reports; regulate the types and amounts of permitted investments; and regulate reinsurance transactions. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are examined periodically by their states of domicile and by other states in which they are licensed to conduct business. the domestic examinations have traditionally emphasized financial matters from the perspective of protection of policyholders, but they can and have covered other subjects that an examining state may be interested in reviewing, such as market conduct issues and reserve adequacy. examinations in other states more typically focus on market conduct, such as a review of sales practices, including the content and use of advertising materials and the licensing and appointing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, and customer service practices, and identification and handling of unclaimed property to determine compliance with state laws. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessments by state insurance guaranty associations to cover the proportional cost of insolvent or failed insurers. the dol enforces a comprehensive federal statute which regulates claims paying fiduciary responsibilities and reporting and disclosure requirements for most employee benefit plans. our u.k. insurance subsidiary, unum limited, is subject to dual regulation by the prudential regulation authority (pra) and the financial conduct authority (fca). the pra oversees the financial health and stability of financial services firms and is responsible for the prudential regulation and day-to-day supervision of insurance companies. the fca seeks to protect consumers and oversees financial services products and practices, including those governing insurance companies in the u.k. on january 31, 2020, an official bill was passed formalizing the withdrawal of the u.k. from the european union (eu). the bill gives approval to an 11-month transition period, until december 31, 2020, to allow for further negotiations regarding the details of the future relationship. the u.k.'s decision to leave the eu may add cost and complexity to our compliance efforts if new laws and regulations are established that significantly diverge from those currently in place, however, we are not aware of any indications of such changes in the short-term and do not expect significant changes over the longer term. additionally, the insurance policies issued by our u.k. insurance subsidiary cover businesses and policyholders based in the u.k. we do not expect these policies to be affected by the u.k.'s exit nor do we anticipate the need to obtain additional insurance permissions to be able to continue writing these policies. for the small amount of contracts and coverages provided to companies and individuals outside of the u.k., we have developed contingency plans that could be invoked following the u.k.'s exit. the employees that support our u.k. business reside in the u.k. and will not need to change residence status. our polish insurance subsidiary, unum zycie tuir, is subject to regulation by the komisja nadzoru finansowego (knf) of the financial supervision authority (fsa) in poland. the knf oversees the financial health and stability of financial services firms and is responsible for the prudential regulation and day-to-day supervision of insurance companies and other financial institutions. 13 capital requirements risk-based capital (rbc) standards for u.s. life insurance companies are prescribed by the national association of insurance commissioners (naic). the domiciliary states of our u.s. insurance subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the naic rbc model act, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers. the basis of the system is a risk-based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer's business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. the life and health rbc formula is designed to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks. the formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. the formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers generally. the naic has also issued a proposal to implement a new and more granular rbc structure for fixed income asset capital charges. the proposed structure will expand the fixed income asset designations from six to 20 categories and will revise factor values. we will continue to monitor the naic's activities on this issue. the naic continues to review the state-based solvency regulation framework to identify opportunities to respond to national and international insurance regulatory and solvency developments. the topics of its review include capital requirements, governance and risk management, statutory accounting and financial reporting, and reinsurance. this ongoing review will likely result in significant changes to u.s. insurance regulation and solvency standards, including those for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries. one of the outcomes of the naic's review was the adoption of the naic risk management and own risk and solvency assessment (orsa) model act which, following enactment at the state level, requires insurers to provide, at least annually, a group-level perspective on the risks of the current and future business plans and the sufficiency of capital to support those risks. all states where our traditional u.s. insurance subsidiaries are domiciled have enacted orsa requirements, and we file an orsa summary report annually with the applicable insurance regulators. the naic has established a working group charged with developing a group capital calculation that can be used by regulators as a baseline quantitative measure in assessing the risks and financial position of insurance groups. the working group completed its work on the u.s. group capital calculation and conducted field testing during the second half of 2019. the calculation and related instructions are being revised to incorporate findings and observations from the field testing and are expected to be adopted by the naic in late 2020. we are also monitoring developments around the implementation of reforms adopted by the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) in november 2019 that established similar group capital requirements. we are not subject to the reforms adopted by the iais, however, the requirements could influence the reforms that will be adopted by the naic. we will continue to monitor the naic's activities on this issue but it is still too early to determine what, if any, impact these developments will have on our capital requirements. the naic has adopted a valuation manual containing a principles-based approach to life insurance company reserves for new business. the earliest effective date was january 2017 with a three-year optional period before mandatory adoption by january 2020. the company elected a staged approach to the implementation of the new requirements, with no material impact on our statutory reserves. in 2012, the naic established a subgroup to study the insurance industry's use of captive reinsurers and special purpose vehicles to transfer insurance risk and is considering ways to promote uniformity in both the approval and supervision of such reinsurers. more recently, the naic adopted a proposal to subject certain captive reinsurers and special purpose vehicles to the same capital requirements as traditional insurers. as the naic and state insurance regulators continue to examine the use of captive insurance companies to finance reserves required under current regulations, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of their work, or how long or extensively they will continue to focus on this issue. although we believe it to be unlikely, a potential outcome of future naic decisions from its various committees, task forces, and working groups is that companies could be prohibited from using captive reinsurers. no changes in the use or regulation of captive reinsurers have been proposed by the naic, and we are unable to predict the extent of any changes that might be made. accordingly, we expect to continue our strategy of using captive reinsurers to manage risks and enhance capital efficiency while monitoring the naic's study and proposed changes in regulations. see "reinsurance" contained herein in this item 1 for further discussion. the pra has statutory requirements, including capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and minimum solvency margins, to which unum limited must adhere as part of the provisions of solvency ii, an eu directive that prescribes capital requirements and risk management standards for the european insurance industry. our european holding company is also subject to the solvency ii requirements relevant to insurance holding companies, while its subsidiaries, which includes unum limited, are subject to group supervision under solvency ii. the unum european economic area (eea) group, which is comprised of the european holding company and its subsidiaries, received approval from the pra to use its own internal model for calculating regulatory capital and also received approval for certain associated regulatory permissions including transitional relief as the 14 solvency ii capital regime is implemented. although there are currently no indications that the regulatory capital regime for our u.k. operations will change due to the u.k.'s decision to leave the eu, it remains too early to predict what, if any, impact this may have on existing capital requirements for our u.k. entities, but economic conditions may cause volatility in our solvency ratios. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources" contained herein in item 7 and note 16 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8. insurance holding company regulation we and our u.s. insurance subsidiaries (excluding captive reinsurers) are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which currently include maine, massachusetts, new york, south carolina, and tennessee. these laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including information concerning capital structure, ownership, management, financial condition, and certain intercompany transactions. transactions between an insurer and affiliates in the holding company system generally must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval by the domiciliary insurance regulator. in addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries. see further discussion in "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "liquidity and capital resources - cash available from subsidiaries" contained herein in item 7. the naic has adopted the corporate governance annual disclosure model act and the corporate governance annual disclosure model regulation, which require u.s. insurers to disclose detailed information regarding their governance practices. the model act and regulation must be adopted by individual state legislatures and insurance regulators in order to be effective in a particular state. at this time, among the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, the model act and regulation are effective only in maine, massachusetts, and tennessee. the naic has also adopted the insurance data security model law, which creates a legal framework that requires insurance companies to establish cybersecurity programs designed to protect the private data of consumers. the law outlines planned cybersecurity testing, and the development of incident response plans for breach notification procedures. the model law must be adopted by individual state legislatures and insurance regulators in order to be effective in particular state. at this time, among the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, the model law is effective only in south carolina. the new york state department of financial services has established similar regulations to this law and the state of california has enacted the california consumer privacy act of 2018. the laws of most states, including the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurance company or its holding company. where these laws apply to us, there can be no effective change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement containing specified information with the appropriate insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval of the proposed change. the usual measure for a presumptive change of control pursuant to these laws is the acquisition of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company, although this presumption is rebuttable. consequently, a person acquiring 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company without the prior approval of the insurance regulators in the state(s) of domicile of the insurance company(ies) sought to be acquired (or whose holding company is sought to be acquired) will be in violation of these laws. such a person may also be subject to one or more of the following actions: (i) injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those shares by the applicable insurance regulators; (ii) prohibition of voting of such shares; and (iii) other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulators. further, many states' insurance laws require that prior notification be given to state insurance regulators of a change in control of a non-domiciled insurance company doing business in the state. these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance regulators to disapprove the change in control; however, they do authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist, such as undue market concentration. any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-notification laws. 15 these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. federal laws and regulations we are subject to the laws and regulations generally applicable to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange relating to public reporting and disclosure, accounting and financial reporting, corporate governance, and securities trading. further, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and rules and regulations adopted under this regulation, have increased the requirements for us and other public companies in these and other areas. the usa patriot act of 2001 (patriot act) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. the patriot act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. anti-money laundering laws outside of the united states contain some similar provisions. additionally, other federal laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and regulations issued by the office of foreign asset's controls, as well as the u.k.'s bribery act of 2010, have increased requirements relating to identifying customers, prohibiting transactions with certain organizations or individuals, watching for and reporting suspicious transactions, responding to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, sharing information with other financial institutions, and requiring the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls. we are subject to federal income, employment, excise and other taxes related to both our u.s. and our foreign operations. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. federal government enacted a tax bill, h.r.1, an act to provide reconciliation pursuant to titles ii and v of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018, more commonly known as the tax cuts and jobs act (tcja). the key provisions of the tcja relevant to us are as follows: establishes a corporate income tax rate of 21 percent; creates a territorial tax system rather than a worldwide system, which will generally allow companies to repatriate future foreign source earnings without incurring additional u.s. taxes by providing a 100 percent exemption for the foreign source portion of dividends from certain foreign subsidiaries; subjects undistributed and previously untaxed foreign earnings and profits to a one-time transition tax also referred to as a deemed repatriation toll charge; creates a u.s. shareholder tax on certain foreign subsidiary income above a routine equity return on tangible depreciable business assets (global intangible low-taxed income); decreases tax-deductible life and property and casualty insurance reserves; increases the amount and amortization period of acquisition costs capitalized for tax purposes; reduces the maximum deduction for net operating loss (nol) carryforwards arising in companies other than non-life insurance companies in tax years beginning after 2017 to a percentage of the taxpayer's taxable income. it also allows any nols generated in tax years beginning after december 31, 2017 to be carried forward indefinitely and repeals carrybacks. nol provisions for non-life insurance companies remain unchanged from current law; allows businesses to immediately write off the cost of new investments in certain qualified depreciable assets made after september 27, 2017 subject to phase downs starting in 2023; eliminates or reduces certain deductions (including deductions for certain compensation arrangements, certain payments made to governments for violations of law and certain legal settlements), exclusions and credits and adds other provisions that broaden the tax base; and creates a new base erosion anti-abuse tax (beat) that subjects certain payments made by a u.s. company to a related foreign company to additional taxes. see "executive summary" and "liquidity and capital resources" contained herein in item 7 and notes 7 and 16 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for discussion of the impact to our financial position and results of operations as a result of these changes. federal tax laws and regulations are subject to change, and any such change could materially impact our federal taxes and reduce profitability as well as capital levels in our insurance subsidiaries. we continually monitor federal tax legislative and regulatory developments to understand their potential impact on our profitability. 16 for further discussion of regulation, refer to "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. geographic areas adjusted operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our unum international segment was approximately 6 percent of our consolidated adjusted operating revenue in 2019, 2018, and 2017. as of december 31, 2019, total assets equaled approximately 6 percent of consolidated assets and total liabilities equaled approximately 5 percent of consolidated liabilities for our unum international segment. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currencies of our unum international segment will impact our reported operating results. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. see "reporting segments" contained herein in this item 1; "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7; and note 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum international's operating results. employees at december 31, 2019, we had approximately 10,300 full-time employees. available information our internet website address is www.unum.com . we make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. information about our executive officers our executive officers, who are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by unum group's board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. name age position richard p. mckenney 51 president and chief executive officer and a director steven a. zabel 51 executive vice president, chief financial officer michael q. simonds 46 executive vice president, chief operating officer elizabeth a. ahmed 45 executive vice president, people and communications timothy g. arnold 57 executive vice president, voluntary benefits and president, colonial life puneet bhasin 57 executive vice president, chief information and digital officer lisa g. iglesias 54 executive vice president, general counsel martha d. leiper 57 executive vice president, chief investment officer peter g. o'donnell 53 executive vice president, unum international christopher w. pyne 50 executive vice president, group benefits mr. mckenney became president in april 2015 and chief executive officer in may 2015. he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer from august 2009 until april 2015, having joined the company in july 2009. before joining the company, mr. mckenney served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of sun life financial inc., an international financial services company, from february 2007, having joined that company as executive vice president in september 2006. mr. zabel became executive vice president, chief financial officer in july 2019. he previously served as senior vice president and president, closed block operations from july 2015 to july 2019 and as senior vice president, chief risk officer from august 2013 to july 2015. prior to joining the company in august 2013, he served in various senior roles at genworth financial, inc. from 2004, including senior vice president of long-term care insurance, chief financial officer for insurance products, and senior vice president of corporate audit services. before that, he was responsible for financial reporting and rating agency relationships at americo life, inc. and managed life and health insurance audit engagements at ernst &amp; young llp. 17 mr. simonds was named executive vice president, chief operating officer in february 2020. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us from july 2013, after having served as senior vice president and chief operating officer, unum us from june 2012. he previously served as senior vice president, growth operations, unum us from july 2010, and as senior vice president and chief marketing officer, unum us from march 2008. mr. simonds originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1994, left the company in 2000 to pursue his mba, and rejoined the company in 2003 after serving as a consultant with mckinsey &amp; company, a global management consulting firm. ms. ahmed was named executive vice president, people and communications upon joining the company in october 2018. she served as executive vice president, chief human resources officer, amtrust financial services, inc., a multinational insurance holding company, from may 2015 to october 2018. prior to that, she served as vice president of human resources at equity trust company, a financial services company, from may 2012 to may 2015, and as senior vice president of human resources at pnc bank, a diversified financial services institution, from august 2008 to may 2012. mr. arnold was named executive vice president, voluntary benefits and president, colonial life in february 2020. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life from january 2015, and before that, as executive vice president, president, colonial life from july 2014. he previously served as senior vice president, sales and marketing, colonial life from august 2012, as senior vice president, chief operations officer, colonial life from july 2011, and as senior vice president, integrated underwriting, unum us from may 2010. mr. arnold originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1985. mr. bhasin was named executive vice president, chief information and digital officer after joining the company in march 2018. he served as executive vice president, corporate operations and recycling at waste management, inc., a waste management environmental services provider, from november 2015 to march 2017. while at waste management, he also served as senior vice president, corporate operations from november 2014, chief information officer and senior vice president, technology, logistics and customer service from august 2012, and senior vice president and chief information officer from december 2009. ms. iglesias was named executive vice president, general counsel upon joining the company in january 2015. she served as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary of wellcare health plans, inc., a managed care company, from february 2012 to december 2014, having first joined wellcare in february 2010 as vice president, securities and assistant general counsel. prior to that, she served as general counsel and corporate secretary for nordstrom, inc., a fashion specialty retailer, from 2007 to 2008, and as general counsel and secretary of spherion corporation, a recruiting and staffing company, from 1999 to 2007. ms. leiper was appointed executive vice president, chief investment officer of the company in october 2019. she joined the company from usaa, a provider of financial services to the military community, where she served as senior vice president, corporate finance and enterprise money movement from october 2016 to october 2019 and, before that, as senior vice president, corporate finance and investments from may 2015 to september 2016 and senior vice president, chief investment officer from may 2010 to may 2015. ms. leiper previously worked at unum group (including predecessor companies) beginning in 1985, holding leadership roles of increasing responsibility, including senior vice president and deputy chief investment officer from january 2006 to may 2010. mr. o'donnell was named executive vice president,unum international in february 2020. prior to that, he held the position of executive vice president and chief executive officer, unum international from october 2018 when the reporting segment was previously known as unum uk. he previously served as president and chief executive officer, unum uk, from september 2012, after having joined the company as unum limited's chief financial officer in 2010. prior to joining unum limited, mr. o'donnell served as director of group finance at prudential plc, an international financial services company, from may 2008 to may 2010. he served as finance director at royal &amp; sunalliance plc, an international financial services company, from may 2005 to may 2008. mr. pyne was named executive vice president, group benefits in february 2020. he previously served as senior vice president, growth operations and distribution from june 2018 to january 2020 and as senior vice president, sales and client management from june 2011 to june 2018. before that, mr. pyne held positions of increasing responsibility within the company's u.s. distribution organization, including vice president, sales from january 2011 to may 2011 and vice president, managing director from january 2008 to december 2010. mr. pyne joined a unum group predecessor company in 1992. 18 item 1a. risk factors overview we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. discussed below are factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases. see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1. market and credit risks sustained periods of low interest rates in the long-term investment market may adversely affect our reported net investment income and the discount rates used in reserving for our insurance products and projecting our pension obligations, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. declines in interest rates and/or the continuance of the current level of low interest rates and yields on fixed income investments may cause the rates of return on our investment portfolio to decrease more than expected, leading to lower net investment income than assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products. an interest, or discount, rate is used in calculating reserves for our insurance products. we set our gaap reserve discount rate assumptions based on our current and expected future investment yield for assets supporting the reserves, considering current and expected future market conditions. if the discount rate assumed in our reserve calculations is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets will not earn enough investment income to support our future claim payments. in that case, the reserves may eventually be insufficient, resulting in the need to increase our reserves and/or contribute additional capital to our insurance subsidiaries, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. similarly, we are required to perform annual adequacy testing, that considers multiple interest rate scenarios, to ensure our statutory reserves continue to meet statutory requirements, which could also require a need to increase our statutory reserves and/or contribute additional capital. our net periodic benefit costs and the value of our benefit obligations for our pension plans are determined based on a set of economic and demographic assumptions that represent our best estimate of future expected experience. major assumptions used in accounting for these plans include the expected discount (interest) rate and the long-term rate of return on plan assets. we set the discount rate assumption at the measurement date for each of our plans to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality fixed income corporate debt instruments matched against the timing and amounts of projected future benefits. a lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases our costs. our expectations for the future investment returns on plan assets are based on a combination of historical market performance, current market conditions, and future capital market assumptions obtained from external consultants and economists. the actual rate of return on plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period. increases or decreases in long-term interest rates as well as equity market volatility will impact the fair value of our plan assets and may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. unfavorable economic or market conditions may result in lower sales, lower premium growth and persistency, higher claims incidence, unfavorable mortality, and longer claims duration, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, primarily in the united states, the united kingdom, poland, and to a lesser extent, the broader global financial markets. negative developments in the capital markets and/or the general economy could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in particular, factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, inflation, pandemics, and the threat of terrorism all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses. given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, new product sales may be adversely affected. our premium growth may also be negatively impacted by lower premium growth from existing customers due to lower salary growth and lower growth in the number of employees covered under an existing policy. in addition, during such periods we may experience 19 higher claims incidence, longer claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. in addition to interest rate risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. default risk our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer's industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, unforeseen accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer's marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations. our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk. events or developments, such as economic conditions that impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio. events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector. a default results in the recognition of an impairment loss on the investment. a default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us. the probability of credit downgrades and defaults increases when the fixed income markets experience periods of volatility and illiquidity. credit spread risk our exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable u.s. treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads may unfavorably impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of the investment portfolio and may adversely impact liquidity. credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities. valuation risk we report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at fair value. valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, particularly during periods of market disruption, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we evaluate our investment portfolio for impairments. there can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken. additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. any event reducing the value of our securities other than on a temporary basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. market timing and liquidity risk while we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, there may at times be a lack of appropriate investments in the market which can be acquired. in particular, due to the long duration of our long-term care product, the timing of our investment cash flows do not match those of our maturing liabilities. in addition, we may, in certain circumstances, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. there may also be a limited market for certain of our investments, such as our private placement fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, and policy loans, which makes them more illiquid. in periods of market volatility or disruption, other of our securities may also experience reduced liquidity. if events occur wherein we need to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment or need to quickly sell securities which are illiquid, market prices may be lower 20 than what we might realize under normal circumstances, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. as part of our overall risk management and capital management strategies, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and may impact the level of capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business, result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue, and increase our capital requirements. the collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the effectiveness and utilization of our hedging programs may be affected by changes in the economic environment, changes in interest rates, capital market volatility, non-performance by our counterparties, changes in the level of required collateral, or regulation, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we use derivative financial instruments to help us manage certain risks related to our business operations, primarily foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, and risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities. factors associated with derivative financial instruments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. ineffectiveness of our hedges due to changes in expected future events, such as the risk created by uncertainty in the economic environment or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance by our counterparties, many of which are financial institutions. non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind hedges, and we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged. under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral, which may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral. changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute hedging strategies due to the increased economic cost of derivatives, primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements. we are monitoring the developments surrounding the transition from the london interbank offered rate (libor) expected to occur in 2021. we are continuing to evaluate the impact, if any, to our existing financial arrangements that extend past 2021 which primarily includes investments, derivatives, and debt agreements. currency translation could materially impact our reported operating results. the functional currency of our u.k. and polish operations is the british pound sterling and the polish zloty, respectively. fluctuations in exchange rates have an effect on our reported financial results, which may be unfavorably impacted when the functional currency weakens. however, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert our functional currency into dollars. as a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k or poland. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits" contained herein in item 1, "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, "interest rate risk" contained herein in item 7a, and notes 1, 2, 3, 4 and 9 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. 21 insurance risks actual experience may differ from our reserve assumptions which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. historical results may not be indicative of future performance due to, among other things, changes in our mix of business, re-pricing of certain lines of business, or any number of economic cyclical effects on our business. reserves, whether calculated under gaap or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. actual experience may differ from our reserve assumptions. there can be no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. life expectancies may continue to increase, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives disability or long-term care benefits and could result in a change in mortality assumptions and an increase in reserves for these and other long-tailed products. adjustments to reserve amounts may also be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (which represents the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors); premium rate increases; persistency; policy benefit offsets, including those for social security and other government-based welfare benefits; and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we provide a broad array of disability, long-term care, group life, and voluntary insurance products that are affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. disability insurance disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence and recoveries for disability insurance. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses. claim durations may be extended by medical improvements which could extend life expectancies. the relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. the pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ among product classes. our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business. guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market. long-term care insurance long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products. this creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval by our states of domicile and may also be subject to approval by jurisdictions in which our policyholders reside. the rate approval process can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all, and the rate increases ultimately approved may be unfavorable relative to assumptions used to establish our reserves. we monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends. changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves. to the extent mortality improves for the general population, and life expectancies increase, the period for which a claimant receives long-term care benefits may lengthen and the associated impact of advanced aging of policyholders may cause an increase in claims incidence. medical advances may 22 continue to have an impact on claim incidence and duration, both favorable and unfavorable. due to the long duration of the product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows are difficult to match to those of our maturing liabilities. sustained periods of low or declining interest rates could result in increases in reserves and adversely affect our results of operations. group life insurance group life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, and pandemic health events, which may also affect the cost of and availability of reinsurance coverage. voluntary products voluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics. our voluntary life insurance products generally include interest sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate. it is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate. the non-life contracts are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products. we have assets which may not be fully recoverable or realizable, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. if our business does not perform well or as initially anticipated in our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment loss on intangible assets or long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset. we have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (dac), value of business acquired (voba), and goodwill. dac and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for dac and voba is performed on an annual basis. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either dac and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary, we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate and information technology software, also may require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we may be unable to recover the carrying amount. we assess our deferred tax assets to determine if they are realizable. factors in our determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate future taxable income. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established with a corresponding charge to net income. charges such as accelerated amortization, impairment losses, or the establishment of valuation allowances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and note 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. 23 operational risks a cyber attack or other security breach could disrupt our operations, result in the unauthorized disclosure or loss of confidential data, damage our reputation or relationships, and expose us to significant financial and legal liability, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we store confidential information about our business and our policyholders, employees, agents and others on our information technology systems, including proprietary and personally identifiable information. as part of our normal business operations, we use this information and engage third-party providers, including outsourcing, cloud computing, and other business partners, that store, access, process, and transmit such information on our behalf. we devote significant resources and employ security measures to help protect our information technology systems and confidential information, and we have programs in place to detect, contain, and respond to information security incidents. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we and our third-party providers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. in addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties or through open source solutions may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise our information security. unauthorized parties, whether within or outside our company, may disrupt or gain access to our systems, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through human error, misfeasance, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceit, including break-ins, use of stolen credentials, social engineering, phishing, or other cyber attacks, computer viruses, malicious codes, and similar means of unauthorized and destructive tampering. we and our third-party providers have experienced and likely will continue to experience information security incidents from time to time. although known incidents have not had a material effect on our business or financial condition, there is no assurance that our security systems and measures will be able to prevent, mitigate, or remediate future incidents that could have such an effect. a successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our information technology systems, or those of third parties with whom we do business, could cause serious negative consequences for us, including significant disruption of our operations, unauthorized disclosure or loss of confidential information, harm to our brand or reputation, loss of customers and revenues, violations of privacy and other laws, and exposure to litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement proceedings, fines, and potentially criminal proceedings and penalties. if we are unaware of the incident for some time after it occurs, our exposure could increase. in addition, the costs to address or remediate systems disruptions or security threats or vulnerabilities, whether before or after an incident, could be significant. as we continue to build our digital capabilities and focus on enhancing the customer experience, the amount of information that we retain and share with third parties, as well as our reliance on them, is likely to grow, increasing the cost to prevent data security breaches and the cost and potential consequences of such breaches. an information technology systems failure could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators. further, successful cyber-attacks at other large financial institutions or other market participants, whether or not we are affected, could lead to a general loss of customer and investor confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect us. although we have insurance against some cyber risks and attacks, we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that exceed our policy limits, are subject to deductibles or are not covered under any of our current insurance policies. the failure of our business recovery and incident management processes to resume our business operations in the event of a natural catastrophe, cyber attack, or other event could adversely affect our profitability, results of operations, or financial condition. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic/pandemic, a cyber attack, cyber security breach or other information technology systems failure, a terrorist attack, or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those problems affect our information technology systems and destroy valuable data or result in a significant failure of our internal control environment. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our employees were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. the failure of our information technology and/or disaster recovery processes or systems for any reason could cause significant interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers' operations and result in the loss, theft, or failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions, legal claims, and increased expenses, and lead to a loss of customers and revenues. 24 our failure to develop digital capabilities or to effectively execute upgrades to or replacements of information technology systems could impair our ability to deliver on our growth initiatives or administer our business, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. our business plans increasingly rely on digital capabilities to meet or surpass customer expectations, simplify our operations, and deliver innovative product and service offerings. if we are unable to effectively develop and offer digital capabilities that enhance our customers' experience, we may not fully achieve our strategic growth initiatives and may also experience the loss of existing business. although we believe we have information technology systems which adequately support our business needs, we continually upgrade our existing information technology systems and acquire or develop new systems to keep pace with the rapidly changing business and technology environment. there are risks involved with upgrading or replacing information technology systems, including, but not limited to, data loss, data errors, and disruption to our operations. we seek to monitor and control our exposure to the risks arising out of these activities through our risk control framework which encompasses a variety of reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes, and other mechanisms. unum group depends on funds from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations and pay dividends. the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to unum group may be impaired by adverse financial results or a change in capital requirements. accordingly, internal sources of capital and liquidity may not always be sufficient. if we need to seek external capital, adverse market conditions may affect our access to capital or our cost of capital. unum group is a holding company for insurance and other subsidiaries and has limited operations of its own. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance laws and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds or other assets to affiliates, including to unum group. the level of earnings and capital in our subsidiaries, as well as business conditions and rating agency considerations, could impact our insurance and other subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to unum group, which could impair our ability to pay dividends to unum group's common stockholders, meet our debt and other payment obligations, and/or repurchase shares of unum group's common stock. the use of funds held by unum group as consideration in any acquisition could affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. a change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations. deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in this item 1a may impose higher capital or reserve requirements on our insurance subsidiaries, increase collateral requirements for certain of our derivatives transactions, and/or implement other requirements which could unfavorably affect our liquidity. without sufficient liquidity, our ability to maintain and grow our operations would be limited. if our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us. if our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus is considered important not only by us but by insurance regulatory authorities in the u.s., the pra in the u.k., the knf in poland, and the rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary's ability to distribute funds to our holding companies. obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be challenging in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty. the markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. the availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock in unum group. we rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity. our right to borrow funds under these facilities is subject to financial covenants, negative covenants, and events of default. our ability to borrow under these facilities are also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facilities or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments would restrict our ability to access these facilities when needed, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. 25 see "regulation" contained herein in item 1,"liquidity and capital resources" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and notes 8 and 15 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. our risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. we have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, and operations risks, which ultimately impact our reputational risk. however, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for monitoring and managing risk may not fully predict or mitigate future exposures. in this case, there may be a negative impact to our business, results of operations, or financial condition. see "regulation" contained herein item 1, "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 7 and 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings. see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" contained herein in item 7a for further information about our risk management program. general risks we and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation. changes in laws and regulations that affect our industry or findings from examinations and investigations may affect the cost or demand for our products, increase capital and reserving requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and adversely affect our profitability, liquidity, or growth. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the united states and abroad. the primary purpose of insurance regulation is to protect policyholders, not stockholders. to that end, applicable laws establish regulatory authorities, including state insurance departments in the united states, the pra in the united kingdom, and the knf in poland, with broad administrative powers over many aspects of the insurance business. for example, our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, we and our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. these laws and regulations can be complex and subject to differing interpretations and are regularly re-examined. existing or future laws and regulations, and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. for example, they may restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us, restrict transactions between subsidiaries and/or between us and our subsidiaries, and may require contributions of capital by us to our insurance subsidiaries even if we are otherwise in compliance with stated requirements. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws or regulations could result in restrictions on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which they operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, an increase to reserving requirements, changes in our claims handling or other business practices, changes in procedures for the identification and payment to the states of benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, assessments by tax authorities or other governing agencies, fines, and other administrative action, which could injure our reputation, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, and/or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. it is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled and operate. we cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. for instance, the naic or state regulators may adopt further revisions to the rbc formula, the pra may revise its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, the iais may adopt capital requirements to which we could be subject, or rating agencies may incorporate higher capital thresholds into their quantitative analyses, thus requiring additional capital contributions by us to our insurance subsidiaries. increased financial services regulation, which could include activities undertaken by the naic and regulatory authorities in the u.k., poland, and the eu may impose greater quantitative 26 requirements, supervisory review, and disclosure requirements and may impact the business strategies, capital requirements, and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. the united kingdom's financial ombudsman service, which was established to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses providing financial services, and the fca, which has rule-making, investigative, and enforcement powers to protect consumers, may hamper our ability to do business, which could have a material adverse effect on our u.k. operations. our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, in the united states, the united kingdom, and poland, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies within these countries, which may also be influenced by the international accounting standards board. future accounting standards we adopt, including the u.s. financial accounting standards board's accounting standard update related to long-duration targeted improvements for insurance contracts, will change current accounting and disclosure requirements applicable to our financial statements. such changes may have a material effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition and may also impact the perception of our business by external stakeholders. we use affiliated captive reinsurers for the limited purpose of reinsuring risks attributable to specified policies issued or reinsured by our insurance subsidiaries in order to effectively manage risks in connection with certain blocks of our business as well as to enhance our capital efficiency. if we were required to discontinue use of the captive reinsurers or to alter the structure of the captive reinsurance arrangements, our ability to maintain current rbc ratios and/or our capital deployment activities could be adversely affected. changes in u.s. programs such as healthcare reform, the emergence of paid family and medical leave legislation, and financial services sector reform may compete with or diminish the need or demand for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace. the u.s. social security disability insurance program may not be sustainable, which may adversely affect the level of our disability claim payments and reserves. legislative changes related to pension funding requirements could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and our profitability. changes in tax laws and other regulations or interpretations of such laws or regulations could unfavorably impact our corporate taxes. in addition, changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. on january 31, 2020, an official bill was passed formalizing the withdrawal of the u.k. from the eu. the bill gives approval to an 11-month transition period, until december 31, 2020, to allow for further negotiations regarding the details of the future relationship. although we do not expect the withdrawal to have a significant direct impact on the underlying operations of our u.k. business, disruption and uncertainty associated with the withdrawal may continue to dampen economic growth in the u.k., and correspondingly, the earnings of our u.k. business. we may experience volatility in the fair values of our investments in u.k. and eu-based issuers, but we do not expect a material increase in other-than-temporary impairments or defaults, nor do we believe this volatility will impact our ability to hold these investments. we may also experience higher claims incidence in the near term, which is generally correlated to periods of economic uncertainty. additionally, it is possible that there are tax impacts associated with the exit such as revised or new tax regulations. the continued dampening of growth due to the current disruption and uncertainty in the u.k. economy may lead to lower near-term sales and premium growth. there are currently no indications that capital requirements for our u.k. operations will change, but economic conditions may cause volatility in our solvency ratios. our reported consolidated financial results may continue to be impacted by fluctuations in the british pound sterling to dollar exchange rate. most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by the employee retirement income security act (erisa). changes to erisa enacted by congress or through judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability. the insurance departments in jurisdictions wherein our insurance subsidiaries conduct business may limit our ability to obtain rate increases under guaranteed renewable contracts or could require changes in rates and/or benefits to meet minimum loss ratio requirements which could negatively impact the profitability of our products. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. these actions could result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. 27 a decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may adversely affect our competitive position, our ability to hedge our risks, and our cost of capital or ability to raise capital, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. a downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect our relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. a downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to unum group can be expected to adversely affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise additional capital. if we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our derivatives financial instrument contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts. such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks. competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability. all of our businesses are highly competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, the quality of our customer's experience regarding service and claims management, integrated product choices, enrollment capabilities, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. we compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability. all areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of the group products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market. there is a risk that our customers may be able to obtain more favorable terms or improved technology solutions from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us, particularly if industry pricing levels do not align with our view of adequate premium rates. we are operating in a dynamic competitive environment of both traditional and non-traditional competitors, with changes in product offerings, enrollment capabilities, and technology solutions. the level and intensity of competition may also grow due to existing competitors becoming more aggressive, and an increase in merger and acquisition activity which may result in larger competitors with greater financial resources. there are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies and new competitors in the future. events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. there are many events which may harm our reputation, including, but not limited to, those discussed in this item 1a regarding regulatory investigations, legal proceedings, and cyber or other information security incidents. in addition, being in the business of insurance, we are paid to accept certain risks. those who conduct business on our behalf, including executive officers and members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, and to some extent, independent agents and brokers, do so in part by making decisions that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline, maintaining effective claim management and customer service performance, managing our investment portfolio and derivatives trading activities, delivering effective technology solutions, complying with established sales practices, executing our capital management strategy, exiting a line of business and/or pursuing strategic growth initiatives, and other decisions. although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks or unintentionally failing to comply with internal policies and practices such that errors occur, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures will be effective. if our employees and business associates take excessive risks and/or fail to comply with internal policies and practices, the impact of those events may damage our market position and reputation. depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital and/or increase our cost of capital. litigation and contingencies are common in our businesses and may result in financial losses and/or harm to our reputation. we are, and in the future may be, defendants in a number of litigation matters, and the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. an estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, 28 materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings. as part of our normal operations in managing claims, we are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. we expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. see "reserves for policy and contract benefits", "competition", "regulation" and "ratings" contained herein in item 1, "executive summary" and "critical accounting estimates" included in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" contained herein in item 7, and notes 1, 6, 7, and 14 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 89 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to various market risk exposures, including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding our risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating our overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a, "investments" contained herein in item 7, and notes 2, 3, and 4 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate changes results from our holdings of financial instruments such as fixed rate investments, derivatives, and interest sensitive liabilities. fixed rate investments include fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, and short-term investments. fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, public utility bonds, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and redeemable preferred stock, all of which are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations. certain of our financial instruments, fixed maturity securities and derivatives, are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of these financial instruments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. a rise in interest rates may decrease the net unrealized gain related to these financial instruments, but may improve our ability to earn higher rates of return on new purchases of fixed maturity securities. conversely, a decline in interest rates may increase the net unrealized gain, but new securities may be purchased at lower rates of return. although changes in fair value of fixed maturity securities and derivatives due to changes in interest rates may impact amounts reported in our consolidated balance sheets, these changes will not cause an economic gain or loss unless we sell investments, terminate derivative positions, determine that an investment is other than temporarily impaired, or determine that a derivative instrument is no longer an effective hedge. other fixed rate investments, such as mortgage loans and policy loans, are carried at amortized cost and unpaid balances, respectively, rather than fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. these investments may have fair values substantially higher or lower than the carrying values reflected in our balance sheets. a change in interest rates could impact our financial position if we sold our mortgage loan investments at times of low market value. a change in interest rates would not impact our financial position at repayment of policy loans, as ultimately the cash surrender values or death benefits would be reduced for the carrying value of any outstanding policy loans. carrying amounts for short-term investments approximate fair value, and we believe we have minimal interest rate risk exposure from these investments. we believe that the risk of being forced to liquidate investments or terminate derivative positions is minimal, primarily due to the level of capital at our insurance subsidiaries, the level of cash and marketable securities at our holding companies, and our investment strategy which we believe provides for adequate cash flows to meet the funding requirements of our business. we 89 may in certain circumstances, however, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. although our policy benefits are primarily in the form of claim payments and we therefore have minimal exposure to the policy withdrawal risk associated with deposit products such as individual life policies or annuities, the fair values of liabilities under all insurance contracts are taken into consideration in our overall management of interest rate risk, which minimizes exposure to changing interest rates through the matching of investment cash flows with amounts due under insurance contracts. changes in interest rates and individuals' behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. we actively monitor our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to manage interest rate risk. due to the long duration of our long-term care product, the timing of our investment cash flows do not match those of our maturing liabilities. we model and test asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios enables us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to limit the risk of disadvantageous outcomes. we use this analysis in determining hedging strategies and utilizing derivative financial instruments. we use current and forward interest rate swaps, options on forward interest rate swaps, and forward treasury locks to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. debt is not carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. if we modify or replace existing debt instruments at current market rates, we may incur a gain or loss on the transaction. we believe our debt-related risk to changes in interest rates is relatively minimal. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. we measure our financial instruments' market risk related to changes in interest rates using a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates potential changes in fair values as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 based on a hypothetical immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels. the selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. the hypothetical potential changes in fair value of our financial instruments at december 31, 2019 and 2018 are shown as follows: december 31, 2019 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 47,443.7 $ 43,612.8 $ (3,830.9) mortgage loans 2,556.3 2,391.5 (164.8) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 420.8 389.7 (31.1) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and deferred acquisition costs (2) $ (5,441.1) $ (2,626.8) $ 2,814.3 long-term debt (3,239.0) (2,940.1) 298.9 derivatives (1) swaps $ 872.5 $ (7.2) $ (36.5) $ (29.3) forwards 8.9 0.1 (0.1) (0.2) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (22.8) (22.7) 0.1 90 december 31, 2018 (in millions of dollars) notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 43,011.7 $ 39,532.1 $ (3,479.6) mortgage loans 2,317.4 2,179.6 (137.8) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 381.8 354.2 (27.6) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and deferred acquisition costs (2) $ (2,986.8) $ (470.7) $ 2,516.1 long-term debt (3,069.2) (2,866.2) 203.0 derivatives (1) swaps $ 799.2 $ (7.1) $ (29.1) $ (22.0) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (31.1) (32.5) (1.4) (1) these financial instruments are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates may affect the fair value at which the item is reported in our consolidated balance sheets. the corresponding offsetting change is reported in other comprehensive income or loss, net of income tax, except for changes in the fair value of derivatives accounted for as fair value hedges or derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, the offset of which is reported as a component of net realized investment gain or loss. (2) the adjustment to reserves and deferred acquisition costs for unrealized investment gains and losses reflects the adjustments to policyholder liabilities and deferred acquisition costs that would be necessary if the unrealized investment gains and losses related to the fixed maturity securities had been realized. changes in this adjustment are also reported as a component of other comprehensive income or loss, net of income tax. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities was estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values shown in the chart above for all other items were determined using discounted cash flow analyses. because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. we remain in an environment of low interest rates, which continues to place pressure on our profit margins as we invest cash flows to support our businesses. we estimate that we will have approximately $1.9 billion of investable cash flows in 2020. assuming interest rates and credit spreads remain constant throughout 2021 at the january 2020 market levels, our net investment income would decrease by an immaterial amount in both 2020 and 2021 as a result of the investment of cash flows at levels below our current expectations. this interest rate scenario does not give consideration to the effect of other factors which could impact these results, such as changes in the bond market and changes in hedging strategies and positions, nor does it consider the potential change to our discount rate reserve assumptions and any mitigating factors such as pricing adjustments. in addition, a continued low or declining interest rate environment may also result in an increase in the net periodic benefit costs for our pension plans, but we do not believe it would materially affect net income in 2020 or 2021. 91 foreign currency risk the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. the functional currency of our operations in poland is the polish zloty. we are exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in the british pound sterling and polish zloty to u.s. dollar exchange rates primarily as they relate to the translation of the financial results of our u.k. and polish operations. fluctuations in exchange rates have an effect on our reported financial results. we do not hedge against the possible impact of this risk. because we do not actually convert our functional currency into dollars except for a limited number of transactions, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue and not a reflection of operations or profitability in our u.k. or polish operations. assuming the pound to dollar exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2019 and 2018 levels, stockholders' equity as reported in u.s. dollars would have been lower by approximately $68 million and $62 million, respectively. assuming the pound to dollar average exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the actual average exchange rates for 2019 and 2018, adjusted operating income, as reported in u.s. dollars, would have decreased approximately $10 million and $11 million, respectively. our polish operations are currently not a significant portion of our overall operations and any changes in the dollar exchange rate would not represent a material impact to our reported financial results in u.s. dollars. dividends paid by unum limited are generally held at our u.k. finance subsidiary or our u.k. holding company. if these funds are repatriated to our u.s. holding company, we would at that time be subject to foreign currency risk as the value of the dividend, when converted into u.s. dollars, would be dependent upon the foreign exchange rate at the time of conversion. we are also exposed to foreign currency risk related to certain foreign investment securities denominated in local currencies. we use foreign currency interest rate swaps to hedge or minimize the foreign exchange risk associated with these instruments. see "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a and "consolidated operating results" and "unum international segment" contained herein in item 7 for further information concerning foreign currency translation. risk management effectively taking and managing risks is essential to the success of our company. to facilitate this effort, we have a formal enterprise risk management (erm) program, with a framework comprising the following key components: risk-aware culture and governance risk appetite policy risk identification and prioritization risk and capital modeling risk management activities risk reporting our erm framework is the ongoing system of people, processes, and tools across our company under which we intend to function consistently and collectively to identify and assess risks and opportunities, to manage all material risks within our risk appetite, and to contribute to strategic decision making. with the goal of maximizing shareholder value, the primary objectives of our erm framework are to support unum group in meeting its operational and financial objectives, maintaining liquidity, optimizing capital, and protecting franchise value. risk-aware culture and governance we employ a risk management model under which risk-based decisions are made daily on a local level. to achieve long-term success, we believe risk management must be the responsibility of all employees. the individual and collective decisions of our employees play a key role in successfully managing our overall risk profile. we strive for a culture of integrity, commitment, and accountability and we believe these values allow our employees to feel comfortable identifying issues as well as taking ownership for addressing potential problems. our employees have an obligation to report issues that they believe will have a material financial, reputational, or regulatory impact to the company. we offer several channels for employees to report their issues or concerns and encourage employees to use the channel that is most appropriate for their situation. we recommend that an employee initially discuss their concerns with their manager; however, if that channel is not appropriate an employee may use any of the other reporting channels available. 92 by employing various approaches, we have established a culture that supports candid discussion and reporting of risks while empowering our employees to take ownership for risk management. our culture is reinforced by our system of risk governance. we employ a multi-layered risk control system. our three lines of defense model is depicted below. 1st line: own and manage 2nd line: oversee 3rd line: independent assurance business processes and procedures employed throughout the company through which management assumes and monitors significant risks management committees chartered with oversight of activities within the 1st and 2nd lines of defense, mitigation of substantial exposures, and management of emerging risks independent assurance on the effectiveness of governance, risk management, and internal control performed by internal audit and the board of directors business units are primarily responsible for managing their principal risks. our risk committees and other management committees serve risk and control functions responsible for providing risk oversight, or the second line of risk control. our internal audit team provides periodic independent reviews and assurance activities serving as our third line of risk control. in addition, our board has an active role, as a whole and through its committees, in overseeing management of our risks. the board is responsible for the oversight of strategic risk and regularly reviews information regarding our capital, liquidity, and operations, as well as the risks associated with each. the risk and finance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of our risk management process, including financial risk, operational risk, and any other risk not specifically assigned to another board committee. it also is responsible for oversight of risks associated with investments, capital and financing plans and activities, and related financial matters, including matters pertaining to our closed block segment. the audit committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to financial reporting risk and certain operational risks. cyber-related operational risk is the joint responsibility of the risk and finance committee and the audit committee. the human capital committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks relating to our compensation plans and programs. the regulatory compliance committee of the board is responsible for oversight of risks related to regulatory, compliance, policy, and legal matters, both current and emerging, and whether of a local, state, federal, or international nature. while each committee is responsible for evaluating certain risks and overseeing the management of such risks, the entire board is regularly informed through committee reports about such risks in addition to the risk information it receives directly. our executive risk management committee is responsible for overseeing our enterprise-wide risk management program. the chief risk officer, who is a member of the executive risk management committee, has primary responsibility for our erm program and is supported by corporate risk committees and by the risk committees of our operating segments. operating segment risk committees for unum us, unum international, colonial life, and closed block are responsible for oversight of risks specific to their businesses. these committees are responsible for identifying, measuring, reporting, and managing strategic insurance and operational risks within their respective areas, consistent with enterprise risk management guidance. corporate risk committees and other management committees oversee the operational, global technology services, investment, and capital management risks on a corporate level. risk appetite policy our risk appetite policy describes the types of risks we are willing to take, as well as the amount of enterprise risk exposure we deem acceptable in pursuit of our goals, with an objective of clearly defining boundaries for our risk-taking activities. the starting point of our philosophy and approach to our erm strategy is our corporate strategy. in contrast to many multi-line peer companies, we do not offer retirement savings, traditional medical benefits, or property and casualty insurance. our corporate strategy is focused on providing group, individual, and voluntary benefits, either as stand-alone products or combined with other coverages, that create comprehensive benefits solutions for employers. we have market leadership positions in the product lines we offer and believe this combination of focused expertise and experience is a competitive advantage and forms the foundation of our approach to risk management. we believe our sound and consistent business practices, strong internal compliance program, and comprehensive risk management strategy enable us to operate efficiently and to identify and address potential areas of risk in our business. we take and manage risks to achieve our business and strategic objectives, and our risk appetite statement sets boundaries for risk-taking activities that link earnings, capital, and operational processes, as well as summarizes our most material risk limits and controls. 93 we monitor our risk profile against our established risk tolerance and limits. risks falling outside our risk tolerance and limits are reported to the applicable governance group, where decisions are made pertaining to acceptance of the risk or implementation of remediation plans or corrective actions as deemed appropriate by that governance group. risk identification and prioritization risk identification and prioritization is an ongoing process, whereby we identify and assess our risk positions and exposures, including notable risk events. additionally, we identify emerging risks and analyze how material future risks might affect us. knowing the potential risks we face, allows us to monitor and manage their potential effects including adjusting our strategies as appropriate and holding capital levels which provide financial flexibility. risk and other management committees have primary responsibility for identifying and prioritizing risks within their respective areas. we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. for additional information on certain risks that may adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition see "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" contained herein on page 1 and "risk factors" contained herein in item 1a. risk modeling and controls we assess material risks, including how they affect us and how individual risks interrelate, to provide valuable information to management in order that they may effectively manage our risks. we use qualitative and quantitative approaches to assess existing and emerging risks and to develop mitigating strategies to limit our exposure to both. we utilize stress testing and scenario analysis for risk management and to shape our business, financial, and strategic planning activities. both are key components of our risk appetite policy and play an important role in monitoring, assessing, managing, and mitigating our primary risk exposures. in particular, stress testing of our capital and liquidity management strategies enables us to identify areas of high exposure, assess mitigating actions, develop contingency plans, and guide decisions around our target capital and liquidity levels. for example, we periodically perform stress tests on certain categories of assets or liabilities to support development of capital and liquidity risk contingency plans. these tests help ensure that we have a buffer to support our operations in uncertain times and financial flexibility to respond to market opportunities. stress testing is also central to reserve adequacy testing, cash flow testing, and asset and liability management. in addition, we aim to constantly improve our capital modeling techniques and methodologies that are used to determine a level of capital that is commensurate with our risk profile and to ensure compliance with evolving regulatory and rating agency requirements. our capital modeling reflects appropriate aggregation of risks and diversification benefits resulting from our mix of products and business units. our internal capital modeling and allocation aids us in making significant business decisions including strategic planning, capital management, risk limit determination, reinsurance purchases, hedging activities, asset allocation, pricing, and corporate development. risk management activities we accept and manage market, credit, insurance, operational and strategic risks in accordance with our corporate strategy, investment policy, and annual business plans. the following fundamental principles are embedded in our risk management efforts across our company. we believe in the benefits of specialization and a focused business strategy. we seek profitable risk-taking in areas where we have established risk management skills and capabilities. we seek to manage our exposure to insurance risk through a combination of prudent underwriting with effective risk selection, maintaining pricing discipline, sound reserving practices, claims operational effectiveness, and selective use of reinsurance. detailed underwriting guidelines and claim policies are tools used to manage our insurance risk exposure. we also monitor exposures against internally prescribed limits, and we diversify to reduce potential concentration risk and volatility. we maintain a detailed set of investment policies and guidelines, including fundamental credit analysis, that are used to manage our credit risk exposure and diversify our risks across asset classes and issuers. 94 we value the importance of managing cyber-related risks, and have policies and procedures in place to help protect against insider trading and allow for timely disclosure of material cybersecurity events. finally, we foster a risk-aware culture that embeds our corporate values and our code of conduct in our daily operations and preserves our reputation with customers and other key stakeholders. we monitor a composite set of operational risk metrics that measure operating effectiveness from the customer perspective. risk reporting regular internal and external risk reporting is an integral part of our erm framework. internally, erm reports are a standard part of our quarterly senior management and board meetings. the reports summarize our existing and emerging risk exposures, as well as report against the tolerances and limits defined by our risk appetite policy. externally, we are subject to a number of regulatory and rating agency risk examinations, and risk reports are often included. annually, we file our own risk and solvency assessment (orsa) summary report with the applicable insurance regulators for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries. this report provides strong evidence of the strengths of our erm framework, measurement approaches, key assumptions utilized in assessing our risks, and prospective solvency assessments under both normal and stressed conditions. see "regulation" contained herein in item 1 for additional information regarding the orsa. 95quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk the company is subject to various market risk exposures including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding the company's risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating the company's overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. the company employs various derivative programs to manage these material market risks. see notes 4 and 5 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk the operations of the company are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations, primarily long-term u.s. interest rates. changes in interest rates and individuals' behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. management continually models and tests asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios allows management to choose the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to prepare for disadvantageous outcomes. this analysis is the precursor to the company's activities in derivative financial instruments. the company uses interest rate swaps, interest rate forward contracts, exchange-traded interest rate futures contracts, and options to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. assuming an immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels, the net hypothetical decrease in stockholders' equity related to financial and derivative instruments was estimated to be $0.8 billion and $0.7 billion at december 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. the fair values of mortgage loans and held-to-maturity securities, which are reported in the consolidated statements of financial condition at amortized cost, would decrease by approximately $70 million and $40 million, respectively, at december 31, 2000 and by approximately $80 million and $40 million, respectively, at december 31, 1999. the fair values of policy loans, which are also reported at amortized cost, would decrease approximately $200 million at december 31, 1999, assuming an immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. during 2000, over 90 percent of the policy loan portfolio was ceded to a reinsurer on a 100 percent indemnity coinsurance basis (see notes 1 and 13 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements"). the impact from interest rate risk on the fair values of policy loans net of ceding was immaterial at december 31, 2000. at december 31, 2000 and 1999, assuming a 100 basis point decrease in long-term interest rates from year end levels, the fair values of the company's long-term debt and company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities would increase approximately $100 million and $30 million, respectively. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a matrix pricing system whereby all securities are priced with the resulting market rates and spreads assuming a change of 100 basis points. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values of long-term debt and company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. because the company actively manages its investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. foreign currency risk the company is also subject to foreign exchange risk arising from its foreign operations and certain investment securities dominated in those local currencies. foreign operations represented 7.7 percent and 8.9 percent of total assets at december 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively, and 9.7 percent and 9.4 percent of total revenue for 2000 and 1999, respectively. assuming foreign exchange rates decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2000 and 1999 levels, year end 2000 and 1999 stockholders' equity would not be materially affected. 38quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk the company is subject to various market risk exposures including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding the company's risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating the company's overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. the company employs various derivative programs to manage these material market risks. see notes 4 and 5 of the "notes to consolidated financial statements" for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk the operations of the company are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations, primarily long-term u.s. interest rates. changes in interest rates and individuals' behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. management continually models and tests asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios allows management to choose the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to prepare for disadvantageous outcomes. this analysis is the precursor to the company's activities in derivative financial instruments. the company uses interest rate swaps, interest rate forward contracts, exchange-traded interest rate futures contracts, and options to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. assuming an immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels, the net hypothetical decrease in stockholders' equity related to financial and derivative instruments was estimated to be $0.8 billion at december 31, 2001 and 2000. the fair values of mortgage loans, which are reported in the consolidated statements of financial condition at amortized cost, would decrease by approximately $50 million and $70 million, respectively, at december 31, 2001 and 2000. held-to-maturity securities are also reported at amortized cost and would decrease by approximately $40 million at december 31, 2000. there were no held-to-maturity securities at december 31, 2001. at december 31, 2001 and 2000, assuming a 100 basis point decrease in long-term interest rates from year end levels, the fair values of the company's long-term debt would increase approximately $125 million and $100 million, respectively, and the fair values of the company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities would increase approximately $40 million and $30 million, respectively. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a matrix pricing system whereby all securities were priced with the resulting market rates and spreads assuming a change of 100 basis points. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values of long-term debt and company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. because the company actively manages its investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. foreign currency risk the company is also subject to foreign exchange risk arising from its foreign operations and certain investment securities dominated in those local currencies. foreign operations represented 7.4 percent and 7.7 percent of total assets at december 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and 8.7 percent and 9.7 percent of total revenue for 2001 and 2000, respectively. assuming foreign exchange rates decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2001 and 2000 levels, year end 2001 and 2000 stockholders' equity would not be materially affected. 42quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is subject to various market risk exposures including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding the company risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating the company overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. the company employs various derivative programs to manage these material market risks. see notes 3 and 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk the operations of the company are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations, primarily long-term u.s. interest rates. changes in interest rates and individuals behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. management continually models and tests asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios allows management to choose the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to prepare for disadvantageous outcomes. this analysis is the precursor to the company activities in derivative financial instruments. the company uses interest rate swaps, interest rate forward contracts, exchange-traded interest rate futures contracts, and options to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. assuming an immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels, the net hypothetical decrease in stockholders equity related to financial and derivative instruments was estimated to be $1.0 billion and $0.8 billion at december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. the fair values of mortgage loans, which are reported in the consolidated statements of financial condition at amortized cost, would decrease by approximately $30 million and $50 million at december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. at december 31, 2002 and 2001, assuming a 100 basis point decrease in long-term interest rates from year end levels, the fair values of the company long-term debt would increase approximately $150 million and $125 million, respectively, and the fair values of the company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities would increase approximately $25 million and $40 million, respectively. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a matrix pricing system whereby all securities were priced with the resulting market rates and spreads assuming a change of 100 basis points. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values of long-term debt and company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. because the company actively manages its investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. foreign currency risk the company is also subject to foreign exchange risk arising from its foreign operations and certain investment securities denominated in those local currencies. foreign operations represented 7.6 percent and 7.4 percent of total assets at december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, and 8.6 percent and 8.7 percent of total revenue for 2002 and 2001, respectively. assuming foreign exchange rates decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2002 and 2001 levels, year end 2002 and 2001 stockholders equity would not be materially affected. 58 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is subject to various market risk exposures including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding the company risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating the company overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. the company employs various derivative programs to manage these material market risks. see notes 4 and 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk the operations of the company are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations, primarily long-term u.s. interest rates. changes in interest rates and individuals behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. management continually models and tests asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios allows management to choose the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to prepare for disadvantageous outcomes. this analysis is the precursor to the company activities in derivative financial instruments. the company uses interest rate swaps, interest rate forward contracts, exchange-traded interest rate futures contracts, and options to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. assuming an immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels, the net hypothetical decrease in stockholders equity related to financial and derivative instruments was estimated to be $1.0 billion at december 31, 2003 and 2002. the fair values of mortgage loans, which are reported in the consolidated statements of financial condition at amortized cost, would decrease by approximately $20 million and $30 million at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. at december 31, 2003 and 2002, assuming a 100 basis point decrease in long-term interest rates from year end levels, the fair values of the company long-term debt, including junior subordinated debt, would increase approximately $225 million and $175 million, respectively. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a matrix pricing system whereby all securities were priced with the resulting market rates and spreads assuming a change of 100 basis points. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values of long-term debt, including junior subordinated debt, were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. because the company actively manages its investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. 80 table of contents foreign currency risk the company is also subject to foreign exchange risk arising from its continuing foreign operations and certain investment securities denominated in those local currencies. continuing foreign operations represented 5.2 percent and 3.9 percent of total assets at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and 5.7 percent and 4.6 percent of total revenue for 2003 and 2002, respectively. assuming foreign exchange rates decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2003 and 2002 levels, year end 2003 and 2002 stockholders equity would not be materially affected. 81 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is subject to various market risk exposures including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding the company risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating the company overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. the company employs various derivative programs to manage these material market risks. see notes 4 and 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk the operations of the company are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations, primarily long-term u.s. interest rates. changes in interest rates and individuals behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. management continually models and tests asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios allows management to choose the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to prepare for disadvantageous outcomes. this analysis is the precursor to the company activities in derivative financial instruments. the company uses interest rate swaps, interest rate forward contracts, exchange-traded interest rate futures contracts, and options to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. assuming an immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels, the net hypothetical decrease in stockholders equity related to financial and derivative instruments was estimated to be $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the fair values of mortgage loans, which are reported in the consolidated statements of financial condition at amortized cost, would decrease by approximately $20 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003. at december 31, 2004 and 2003, assuming a 100 basis point decrease in long-term interest rates from year end levels, the fair values of the company long-term debt, including junior subordinated debt, would increase approximately $200 million and $225 million, respectively. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds, private placement securities, and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the company previously used a matrix pricing system to determine the effect of interest rate changes on securities. the prior year amount presented above reflects the impact which would have been reported had the company used the duration implied methodology as of december 31, 2003. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities is estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the 90 table of contents actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values of long-term debt, including junior subordinated debt, were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. because the company actively manages its investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. foreign currency risk the company is also subject to foreign exchange risk arising from its foreign operations and certain investment securities denominated in those local currencies. foreign operations, excluding discontinued operations, represented 6.7 percent and 5.2 percent of total assets at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and 8.0 percent and 5.7 percent of total revenue for 2004 and 2003, respectively. assuming foreign exchange rates decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2004 and 2003 levels, stockholders equity and net loss as of and for the periods then ended would not have been materially affected. 91 table of contentsgeographic areas segment operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, attributable to the unum limited segment, the company united kingdom subsidiary, totaled $945.6 million, $801.8 million, and $593.4 million for 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. unum limited operating revenue in 2005 equaled approximately 9 percent of total segment operating revenue. total assets and total liabilities, as of december 31, 2005, were $3.3 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, for unum limited. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency of this subsidiary will impact reported operating results for the company. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum limited operating results. employees at december 31, 2005, the company had approximately 11,300 full-time employees. available information the company internet website address is www.unumprovident.com. the company has adopted corporate governance guidelines, a code of business practices and ethics, and charters for its board of directors audit, compensation, governance, finance, and regulatory compliance committees in accordance with nyse requirements. these documents are available free of charge on the website and in print at the request of any stockholder from the office of the corporate secretary, 1 fountain square, chattanooga, tennessee, 37402, or by calling toll-free 1-800-718-8824. the company also makes available, free of charge, on or through its website its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors set forth below are certain factors that may adversely affect the company business, financial condition, or results of operations. any one or more of the following factors may cause the company actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. see cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements contained herein on page 1. regulation the company u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation. the regulations may affect the cost or demand for the company products and may hinder the company from taking desired actions to increase its profitability. the company insurance company subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, the company may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on the company ability to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which it operates and could result in fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business. congress, as well as foreign, state, and local governments, could enact legislation related to changes in tax laws that could increase the company tax costs or affect the desirability of the company products by consumers. erisa was passed by congress in 1974. one of the purposes of erisa was to reserve for federal authority the sole power to regulate the field of employee benefits. erisa eliminated the threat of conflicting or inconsistent state and local regulation of employee benefit plans. in doing so, erisa pre-empted all state laws except those that specifically regulated the business of insurance. erisa also provides an exclusive remedial scheme for any action brought by erisa plan participants and beneficiaries. erisa has allowed plan administrators and plan fiduciaries to efficiently manage employee benefit plans in the united states. most group long-term and short-term income protection plans administered by the company are governed by erisa. changes to erisa enacted by congress or via judicial interpretations could adversely affect the risk of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability. unum limited is subject to regulation by the fsa in the u.k. these laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and self-regulatory organizations broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict unum limited from doing business in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review the company products and business practices and those of its agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against the company if, in their view, the company practices are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines or restrictions on the company business activities and could have a material adverse effect on the company business or results of operations. during 2002 and 2003, the company experienced increased market conduct examinations focused specifically on its disability claims handling policies and practices. these examinations by state insurance departments have generally involved a review of complaints from policyholders or insureds on a range of subjects and a review of disability claim files and associated materials from group long-term and individual income protection product lines. because of the number of market conduct examinations initiated during 2002 and 2003, a coordinated multistate market conduct examination of the company disability claims handling practices was organized during 2003 by maine, massachusetts, and tennessee, the states of domicile for several of the company insurance subsidiaries. in november 2004, certain of the company insurance subsidiaries entered into settlement agreements with state insurance regulators upon conclusion of a multistate market conduct examination led by maine, massachusetts, and tennessee relating to disability claims handling practices. a total of 48 states and the district of columbia were parties to the settlement agreements. in addition, the u.s. department of labor, which had been conducting an inquiry relating to certain erisa plans, was a party to the settlement agreements, and the office of the nyag, which had engaged in its own investigation of the company claims handling practices, notified the company that it was in support of the settlement and was, therefore, closing its investigation on this issue. in october 2005, certain 18 table of contents of the company insurance subsidiaries entered into a settlement agreement with the california doi, concluding a market conduct examination and investigation of the subsidiaries disability claims handling practices. the california doi had chosen not to join the 2004 multistate settlement agreements. see previous discussion under regulation examinations and investigations contained herein in item 1, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7, and note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in items 8 for additional information concerning these settlement agreements and other regulatory examinations and investigations. the 2004 multistate regulatory settlement agreements and the 2005 california doi settlement agreement resulted in changes in the company claim handling practices and a process for reassessing certain claims to determine whether the earlier claim decision was properly decided. failure to meet the requirements of these settlement agreements could result in a substantial fine. these and other regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in business practices, including changes in broker compensation and related disclosure practices, changes in the use and oversight of finite reinsurance, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, fines, and other administrative action. such results, singly or in combination, could injure the company reputation, cause negative publicity, adversely affect the company debt and financial strength ratings, place the company at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering its products, or impair the company ability to sell or retain insurance policies, thereby adversely affecting the company business, and potentially materially adversely affecting the results of operations in a period, depending on the results of operations of the company for the particular period. determination by regulatory authorities that the company or its insurance subsidiaries have engaged in improper conduct could also adversely affect the company defense of various lawsuits. reserves reserves, whether calculated under gaap or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by the company using actuarial and statistical procedures. there can be no assurance that any such reserves will be sufficient to fund future liabilities of the company in all circumstances. future loss development could require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. adjustments to reserve amounts may be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors), persistency, mortality, and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts. debt and financial strength ratings the company competes based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. the downgrade of the financial strength ratings could adversely affect the company by, among other things, adversely affecting relationships with distributors of its products and services and retention of its sales force, negatively impacting persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affecting its ability to compete. changes in the company debt ratings could have an effect on the company ability to raise capital and its cost of capital. see ratings contained herein in item 1 and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion of the company ratings from these agencies. litigation the company and/or its subsidiaries directors and officers have been sued in over 20 purported class action and stockholder derivative lawsuits. these lawsuits are in a very preliminary stage, the outcome is uncertain, and the company is unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible losses. reserves have not been established for these matters. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions could, depending on the nature, scope, and amount of the ruling, materially adversely affect the company results of operations, encourage other litigation, and limit the company ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of the company ratings. 19 table of contents in addition to the claim related litigation described above, the company and its insurance subsidiaries, as part of their normal operations in managing disability claims, are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for its general claim litigation, the company and its insurance company subsidiaries maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. management expects that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to the consolidated financial condition of the company. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations in a period, depending on the results of operations of the company for the particular period. the company is unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. refer to note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for information on the above legal proceedings. deferred policy acquisition costs, value of business acquired, and goodwill the company defers certain costs incurred in acquiring new business and expenses these costs over the life of the related policies. these costs include certain commissions, other agency compensation, selection and policy issue expenses, and field expenses. value of business acquired (voba) represents the present value of future profits recorded in connection with the acquisition of a block of insurance policies. deferred policy acquisition costs and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for deferred policy acquisition costs and voba is performed when, in the judgment of management, adverse deviations from original assumptions have occurred and may be likely to continue such that recoverability of deferred policy acquisition costs and/or voba on a line of business is questionable. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with the company manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either deferred policy acquisition costs and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. goodwill is not amortized, but the company reviews on an annual basis the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, with consideration given to financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, the company tests for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause the company to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. industry factors all of the company businesses are highly regulated and competitive. the company profitability is affected by a number of factors, including rate competition, frequency and severity of claims, lapse rates, government regulation, interest rates, and general business considerations. there are many insurance companies which actively compete with the company in its lines of business, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources than the company, and there is no assurance that the company will be able to compete effectively against such companies in the future. capital adequacy the capacity for an insurance company growth in premiums is in part a function of its statutory surplus. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by state insurance regulations, is considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities and the private agencies that rate insurers claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the private rating agencies. 20 table of contents the individual rbc ratios for the company u.s. insurance subsidiaries at december 31, 2005, were above the range that would require state regulatory action. if the naic adopts revisions to the rbc formula, the company insurance subsidiaries may require additional capital. the additional capital required may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. in addition, insurance companies in the u.k. are subject to regulation, including capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, by the fsa. need for additional capital could limit a subsidiary ability to distribute funds to the company and adversely affect the company ability to pay dividends on its common stock and meet its debt and other payment obligations. income protection insurance income protection insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, work ethics, motivation, stability, and mores can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from income protection products. the climate and the nature of competition in income protection insurance have also been markedly affected by the growth of social security, worker compensation, and other governmental programs in the workplace. both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence for income protection insurance. the relationship between these factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. within the group income protection market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. the pricing actions available in the individual income protection market differ between product classes. the nature of that portion of the company outstanding insurance business that consists of individual noncancelable income protection policies, whereby the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, does not permit the company to adjust its premiums on in-force business due to changes resulting from such factors. guaranteed renewable contracts can be re-priced to reflect external factors, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group income protection market. income protection insurance products are important products for the company. to the extent that income protection products are adversely affected in the future as to sales or claims, the business or results of operations of the company could be materially adversely affected. long-term care insurance long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new insurance product, the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to properly price the products and use appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves potentially has greater risk than that of other product offerings for which greater experience exists regarding trends and appropriate assumptions. mortality is a critical factor influencing the length of time a claimant receives long-term care benefits. mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy trends have extended. changes in actual mortality trends relative to assumptions may adversely affect the results of the company. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect external factors. group life insurance group life insurance may be affected by many factors, including the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, the company risk selection process, the ability of the company to retain employer groups with lower claim incidence rates, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks and natural disasters, which may also affect the availability of reinsurance coverage. changes in any of these factors may adversely affect the results of the company. 21 table of contents investments the company maintains an investment portfolio that consists primarily of fixed income securities. the quality and/or yield of the portfolio may be affected by a number of factors, including the general economic and business environment, changes in the credit quality of the issuer, changes in market conditions, changes in interest rates, changes in foreign exchange rates, or regulatory changes. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, or a change in the issuer marketplace may adversely affect the company ability to collect principal and interest from the issuer. the investments held by the company are predominantly invested to support the insurance liabilities of the company. the timing and/or amount of the investment cash flows may not match those of the liabilities of the company. the investments held by the company insurance subsidiaries are highly regulated by specific legislation in each state that governs the type, amount, and credit quality of allowable investments. legislative changes could force the company to restructure the portfolio in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment, with a resulting adverse effect on profitability and the level of statutory capital. the company uses derivative instruments that are hedging in nature. the company profitability may be adversely affected if a counterparty to the derivative defaults in its payment. this default risk is mitigated by cross-collateralization agreements. dividend restrictions as a holding company, the company relies on dividends or extensions of credit from its insurance company subsidiaries, including its u.s. insurance subsidiaries and unum limited, to make dividend payments on its common stock, meet debt payment obligations, and pay its other obligations. the company insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to affiliates. the level of statutory earnings and capital in the company insurance subsidiaries could impact their ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to the company, which could impair the company ability to pay its dividends or meet its debt and other payment obligations. see liquidity and capital resources included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for a discussion of the existing regulatory limitations on dividends. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is subject to various market risk exposures including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding the company risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating the company overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. the company employs various derivative programs to manage these material market risks. see notes 4 and 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk the operations of the company are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations, primarily long-term u.s. interest rates. changes in interest rates and individuals behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. management continually models and tests asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios allows management to choose the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to prepare for disadvantageous outcomes. this analysis is the precursor to the company activities in derivative financial instruments. the company uses interest rate swaps, interest rate forward contracts, exchange-traded interest rate futures contracts, and options to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. assuming an immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels, the net hypothetical decrease in stockholders equity related to financial and derivative instruments was estimated to be $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the fair values of mortgage loans, which are reported in the consolidated statements of financial condition at amortized cost, would decrease by approximately $90 million and $20 million at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, assuming a 100 basis point decrease in long-term interest rates from year end levels, the fair values of the company long-term debt, including junior subordinated debt, would increase approximately $240 million and $200 million, respectively. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds, private placement securities, and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities is estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values of long-term debt, including junior subordinated debt, were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. because the company actively manages its investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. foreign currency risk the company is also subject to foreign exchange risk arising from its foreign operations and certain investment securities denominated in those local currencies. foreign operations represented 6.4 percent and 6.7 percent of total assets at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and 9.1 percent and 8.0 percent of total revenue for 2005 and 2004, respectively. assuming foreign exchange rates decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2005 and 2004 levels, stockholders equity and net income (loss) as of and for the periods then ended would not have been materially affected. 98 table of contentsgeographic areas segment operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, attributable to the unum uk segment, our united kingdom subsidiary, totaled $1,017.5 million, $945.6 million, and $801.8 million for 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. unum uk operating revenue in 2006 equaled approximately 9.7 percent of total segment operating revenue. total assets and total liabilities, as of december 31, 2006, were $3.9 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, for unum uk. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency of this subsidiary will impact our reported operating results. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum uk operating results. employees at december 31, 2006, we had approximately 11,100 full-time employees, including approximately 1,600 at genex, the sale of which we expect to close during the first quarter of 2007. available information our internet website address is www.unum.com . we make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. 16 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the executive officers of the company, all of whom are also executive officers of certain principal subsidiaries, were appointed by our board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. name age position thomas r. watjen 52 president and chief executive officer and a director joseph m. zubretsky * 50 senior executive vice president, finance, investments, and corporate development robert o. best 57 executive vice president, chief operating officer unum us charles l. glick 52 executive vice president and general counsel robert c. greving 55 executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief actuary kevin p. mccarthy 51 executive vice president, president unum us randall c. horn 54 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life &amp; accident insurance company susan l. ring 46 executive vice president, chief executive officer, unum limited * mr. zubretsky has resigned from his position with the company effective february 28, 2007. mr. watjen became president and chief executive officer in march 2003. he served as vice chairman and chief operating officer from may 2002 until march 2003. he became executive vice president, finance in june 1999 and assumed the additional risk management responsibilities in november 1999. mr. watjen originally joined a unum group predecessor company as executive vice president and chief financial officer in 1994. mr. zubretsky became senior executive vice president, finance, investments, and corporate development in march 2005. prior to joining the company, he served as president and chief executive officer of gab robins group and a partner with brera capital partners since 1999. from 1997 to 1999 he was executive vice president and chief financial officer of massmutual financial group and, from 1996 to 1997 chief financial officer of healthsource, inc. mr. zubretsky was a partner in the insurance industry group of coopers &amp; lybrand llp from 1990 to 1996. mr. best became executive vice president, chief operating officer unum us in january 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, service operations and chief information officer from january 2006. prior to that time, he served as executive vice president, the client services center, and chief information officer from may 2003. he served as senior vice president, customer loyalty services, and chief information officer from march 2000 until may 2003. mr. best originally joined a unum group predecessor company as senior vice president and chief information officer in 1994. mr. glick became executive vice president and general counsel in september 2005. prior to joining the company, he was the principal of orchard equity, inc., from 2003 to 2005. mr. glick was formerly deputy general counsel for bank one corporation from 2001 to 2003 and previously was a founding partner of hedlund hanley &amp; john. mr. greving was named executive vice president and chief financial officer in may 2003 and appointed chief actuary in august 2005. he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer from may 2002 until may 2003. prior to that time he served as senior vice president, finance from august 2000. mr. greving originally joined a unum group predecessor company as senior vice president and chief actuary in april 1997. mr. mccarthy was named executive vice president, president unum us in january 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, risk operations from january 2006. he previously served as executive vice president, underwriting from may 2003. he served as senior vice president, underwriting from november 2001 until may 2003 and as senior vice president, marketing, product development, and international from december 1999 until november 2001. mr. mccarthy originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1976. 17 table of contents mr. horn became executive vice president, president and chief executive officer of colonial life &amp; accident insurance company in march 2004. prior to joining the company, he served as executive vice president of mutual of omaha insurance company from september 1981 until september 2003. ms. ring became executive vice president, chief executive officer of unum limited in november 2006. she served as chairman and managing director of unum limited from december 2002 until november 2006. she served as operations director from 1999 until 2002 and prior to that time was director of risk management. ms. ring joined unum limited as director of customer services in 1995. item 1a. risk factors discussed below are certain factors that may adversely affect our business, financial position, or results of operations. any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. see cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements contained herein on page 1. regulation our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation. the regulations may affect the cost or demand for our products and may hinder us from taking desired actions to increase our profitability. our insurance company subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. congress, as well as foreign, state, and local governments, could enact legislation related to changes in tax laws that could increase our tax costs or affect the desirability of our products by consumers. erisa was passed by congress in 1974. one of the purposes of erisa was to reserve for federal authority the sole power to regulate the field of employee benefits. erisa eliminated the threat of conflicting or inconsistent state and local regulation of employee benefit plans. in doing so, erisa pre-empted all state laws except those that specifically regulated the business of insurance. erisa also provides an exclusive remedial scheme for any action brought by erisa plan participants and beneficiaries. erisa has allowed plan administrators and plan fiduciaries to efficiently manage employee benefit plans in the united states. most group long-term and short-term income protection plans administered by the company are governed by erisa. changes to erisa enacted by congress or via judicial interpretations could adversely affect the risk of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability. unum limited is subject to regulation by the fsa in the u.k. u.k. laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and self-regulatory organizations broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict unum limited from doing business in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 18 table of contents during 2002 and 2003, our u.s. insurance subsidiaries experienced increased market conduct examinations focused specifically on our disability claims handling policies and practices. these examinations by state insurance departments have generally involved a review of complaints from policyholders or insureds on a range of subjects and a review of disability claim files and associated materials from group long-term and individual income protection product lines. because of the number of market conduct examinations initiated during 2002 and 2003, a coordinated multistate market conduct examination of our disability claims handling practices was organized during 2003 by maine, massachusetts, and tennessee, the states of domicile for several of our insurance subsidiaries. in november 2004, certain of our insurance subsidiaries entered into settlement agreements with state insurance regulators upon conclusion of a multistate market conduct examination led by maine, massachusetts, and tennessee relating to our disability claims handling practices. a total of 48 states and the district of columbia were parties to the settlement agreements. in addition, the dol, which had been conducting an inquiry relating to certain erisa plans, was a party to the settlement agreements, and the nyag, which had engaged in its own investigation of our claims handling practices, notified us that it was in support of the settlement and was, therefore, closing its investigation on this issue. in october 2005, certain of our insurance subsidiaries entered into a settlement agreement with the california doi, concluding a market conduct examination and investigation of the subsidiaries disability claims handling practices. the california doi had chosen not to join the 2004 multistate settlement agreements. see previous discussion under regulation examinations and investigations contained herein in item 1, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7, and note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for additional information concerning these settlement agreements and other regulatory examinations and investigations. the 2004 multistate regulatory settlement agreements and the 2005 california doi settlement agreement resulted in changes in our claims handling practices and a process for reassessing certain claims to determine whether the earlier claim decision was properly decided. failure to meet the requirements of these settlement agreements could result in a substantial fine. these and other regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in business practices, including changes in broker compensation and related disclosure practices, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, fines, and other administrative action. such results, singly or in combination, could injure our reputation, cause negative publicity, adversely affect our debt and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, or impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, thereby adversely affecting our business, and potentially materially adversely affecting the results of operations in a period, depending on the results of operations for the particular period. determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct could also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. reserves reserves, whether calculated under gaap or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. there can be no assurance that any such reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. future loss development could require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. adjustments to reserve amounts may be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors), persistency, mortality, and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts. debt and financial strength ratings we compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. the downgrade of our financial strength ratings could adversely affect us by, among other things, adversely affecting relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impacting persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affecting our ability to compete. a downgrade in our debt ratings or a negative outlook statement by a rating agency could have an effect on our ability to raise capital and on our cost of capital. see ratings contained herein in item 1 and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion of our ratings from these agencies. 19 table of contents litigation the company and/or its subsidiaries directors and officers have been sued in over 20 purported class action and stockholder derivative lawsuits. these lawsuits are in a very preliminary stage, the outcome is uncertain, and we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible losses. reserves have not been established for these matters. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions could, depending on the nature, scope, and amount of the ruling, materially adversely affect our results of operations, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings. in addition to the claim related litigation described above, the company and its insurance subsidiaries, as part of their normal operations in managing disability claims, are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. we expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our consolidated financial position. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a period, depending on our results of operations for the particular period. we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. refer to note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for additional information on certain of the above legal proceedings. deferred policy acquisition costs, value of business acquired, and goodwill we defer certain costs incurred in acquiring new business and expense these costs over the life of the related policies. these costs include certain commissions, other agency compensation, selection and policy issue expenses, and field expenses. value of business acquired (voba) represents the present value of future profits recorded in connection with the acquisition of a block of insurance policies. deferred policy acquisition costs and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for deferred policy acquisition costs and voba is performed when, in our judgment, adverse deviations from original assumptions have occurred and may be likely to continue such that recoverability of deferred policy acquisition costs and/or voba on a line of business is questionable. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either deferred policy acquisition costs and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. goodwill is not amortized, but we review on an annual basis the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, with consideration given to financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. industry factors all of our businesses are highly regulated and competitive. our profitability is affected by a number of factors, including rate competition, frequency and severity of claims, lapse rates, government regulation, interest rates, and general business considerations. there are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against such companies in the future. see competition contained herein in item 1 for additional information on the competition we face. 20 table of contents capital adequacy the capacity for an insurance company growth in premiums is in part a function of its statutory surplus. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by state insurance regulations, is considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities and the rating agencies that rate insurers claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. the individual rbc ratios for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries at december 31, 2006, were above the range that would require state regulatory action. if the naic or state regulators adopt revisions to the rbc formula, our insurance subsidiaries may require additional capital. the additional capital required may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. in addition, insurance companies in the u.k. are subject to regulation, including capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, by the fsa. need for additional capital could limit a subsidiary ability to distribute funds to the holding company and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our debt and other payment obligations. income protection insurance income protection insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, work ethics, motivation, stability, and mores can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from income protection products. the climate and the nature of competition in income protection insurance have also been markedly affected by the growth of social security, workers compensation, and other governmental programs in the workplace. both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence for income protection insurance. the relationship between these factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. within the group income protection market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. the pricing actions available in the individual income protection market differ between product classes. the nature of that portion of our outstanding insurance business that consists of individual noncancelable income protection policies, whereby the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, does not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business due to changes resulting from such factors. guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect external factors, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group income protection market. income protection insurance products are important products for us. to the extent that income protection products are adversely affected in the future as to sales or claims, our business or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. long-term care insurance long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new insurance product, the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to properly price the products and use appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves potentially has greater risk than that of other product offerings for which greater experience exists regarding trends and appropriate assumptions. mortality is a critical factor influencing the length of time a claimant receives long-term care benefits. mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy trends have extended. changes in actual mortality trends relative to assumptions may adversely affect our profitability. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect external factors. 21 table of contents group life insurance group life insurance may be affected by many factors, including the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with lower claim incidence rates, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks and natural disasters, which may also affect the availability of reinsurance coverage. changes in any of these factors may adversely affect our profitability. epidemics, pandemics, terrorists attacks, natural disasters or other extreme events extreme events, including terrorism, can affect the economy in general, our industry, and us specifically. such events could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, and in the event of extreme circumstances, our financial condition or viability. beyond obtaining coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from terrorism away from us. in particular, in the event of bioterrorism attacks, epidemics, or other extreme events, we could face significant health care costs depending on the government actions and the responsiveness of public health agencies and other insurers. in addition, we could also be adversely affected if we do not maintain adequate procedures to ensure disaster recovery and business continuity for our facilities and operations in the event of such occurrences. investments we maintain an investment portfolio that consists primarily of fixed income securities. the quality and/or yield of the portfolio may be affected by a number of factors, including the general economic and business environment, changes in the credit quality of the issuer, changes in market conditions, changes in interest rates, changes in foreign exchange rates, or regulatory changes. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, or a change in the issuer marketplace may adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest from the issuer. the investments we hold are predominantly invested to support the insurance liabilities of our subsidiaries. the timing and/or amount of the investment cash flows may not match those of the liabilities. the investments held by our insurance subsidiaries are highly regulated by specific legislation in each state that governs the type, amount, and credit quality of allowable investments. legislative changes could force us to restructure the portfolio in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment, with a resulting adverse effect on profitability and the level of statutory capital. we use derivative instruments that are hedging in nature. our profitability may be adversely affected if a counterparty to the derivative defaults in its payment. this default risk is mitigated by cross-collateralization agreements. dividend restrictions unum group and certain of its intermediate holding company subsidiaries and/or finance subsidiaries rely on dividends or extensions of credit from our insurance company subsidiaries, including our u.s. insurance subsidiaries and unum limited, to make dividend payments on our common stock, meet debt payment obligations, and pay our other obligations. our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to affiliates. the level of statutory earnings and capital in our insurance subsidiaries could impact their ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to the holding company, which could impair our ability to pay our dividends or meet our debt and other payment obligations. see liquidity and capital resources included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for a discussion of the existing regulatory limitations on dividends. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to various market risk exposures, including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding our risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating our overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. we employ various derivative programs to manage these material market risks. see notes 4 and 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk our operations are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations, primarily long-term u.s. interest rates. changes in interest rates and individuals behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. we continually model and test asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios allows us to choose the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to prepare for disadvantageous outcomes. this analysis is the precursor to our activities in derivative financial instruments. we use interest rate swaps, interest rate forward contracts, exchange-traded interest rate futures contracts, and options to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. assuming an immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels, the net hypothetical decrease in stockholders equity related to financial and derivative instruments was estimated to be $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the fair values of mortgage loans, which are reported in our consolidated balance sheets at amortized cost, would decrease by approximately $50 million and $90 million at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, assuming a 100 basis point decrease in long-term interest rates from year end levels, the fair values of our long-term debt would increase approximately $210 million and $240 million, respectively. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds, private placement securities, and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities is estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values of long-term debt were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. foreign currency risk we are also subject to foreign exchange risk arising from our foreign operations and certain investment securities denominated in those local currencies. foreign operations represented 7.4 percent and 6.4 percent of total assets at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and 9.7 percent and 9.2 percent of total revenue from continuing operations for 2006 and 2005, respectively. assuming foreign exchange rates decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2006 and 2005 levels, stockholders equity and net income as of and for the periods then ended would not have been materially affected. 95 table of contentsgeographic areas segment operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our unum uk segment totaled $1,171.8 million, $1,017.5 million, and $945.6 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. unum uk operating revenue in 2007 equaled approximately 11.1 percent of total segment operating revenue. total assets and total liabilities, as of december 31, 2007, were $4.0 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, for unum uk. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency of this subsidiary will impact our reported operating results. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum uk operating results. 15 table of contents employees at december 31, 2007, we had approximately 9,700 full-time employees. available information our internet website address is www.unum.com . we make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. executive officers of the registrant the executive officers of the company, all of whom are also executive officers of certain principal subsidiaries, were appointed by our board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. name age position thomas r. watjen 53 president and chief executive officer and a director robert o. best 58 executive vice president, chief operating officer unum us charles l. glick * 53 executive vice president and general counsel robert c. greving 56 executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief actuary kevin p. mccarthy 52 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us randall c. horn 55 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life susan l. ring 47 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk * mr. glick has resigned from his position with the company effective march 31, 2008. mr. watjen became president and chief executive officer in march 2003. he served as vice chairman and chief operating officer from may 2002 until march 2003. he became executive vice president, finance in june 1999 and assumed the additional risk management responsibilities in november 1999. mr. watjen originally joined a unum group predecessor company as executive vice president and chief financial officer in 1994. mr. best became executive vice president, chief operating officer unum us in january 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, service operations and chief information officer from january 2006. prior to that time, he served as executive vice president, the client services center, and chief information officer from may 2003. he served as senior vice president, customer loyalty services, and chief information officer from march 2000 until may 2003. mr. best originally joined a unum group predecessor company as senior vice president and chief information officer in 1994. mr. glick became executive vice president and general counsel in september 2005. prior to joining the company, he was the principal of orchard equity, inc., from 2003 to 2005. mr. glick was formerly deputy general counsel for bank one corporation from 2001 to 2003 and previously was a founding partner of hedlund hanley &amp; john. mr. greving was named executive vice president and chief financial officer in may 2003 and appointed chief actuary in august 2005. he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer from may 2002 until may 2003. prior to that time he served as senior vice president, finance from august 2000. mr. greving originally joined a unum group predecessor company as senior vice president and chief actuary in april 1997. 16 table of contents mr. mccarthy was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us in may 2007. he became executive vice president, president, unum us in january 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, risk operations from january 2006. he previously served as executive vice president, underwriting from may 2003. he served as senior vice president, underwriting from november 2001 until may 2003 and as senior vice president, marketing, product development, and international from december 1999 until november 2001. mr. mccarthy originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1976. mr. horn was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life in may 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer of colonial life &amp; accident insurance company from march 2004. before joining the company, he served as executive vice president of mutual of omaha insurance company from september 1981 until september 2003. ms. ring was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk in may 2007. she became executive vice president, chief executive officer of unum limited in november 2006. she served as chairman and managing director of unum limited from december 2002 until november 2006. she served as operations director from 1999 until 2002 and prior to that time was director of risk management. ms. ring joined unum limited as director of customer services in 1995. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors discussed below are certain factors that may adversely affect our business, financial position, or results of operations. any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. see cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements contained herein on page 1. regulation our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation. the regulations may affect the cost or demand for our products and may hinder us from taking desired actions to increase our profitability. our insurance company subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. congress, as well as foreign, state, and local governments, could enact legislation related to changes in tax laws that could increase our tax costs or affect the desirability of our products by consumers. erisa was passed by congress in 1974. one of the purposes of erisa was to reserve for federal authority the sole power to regulate the field of employee benefits. erisa was intended to eliminate the threat of conflicting or inconsistent state and local regulation of employee benefit plans, and thus erisa pre-empts all state laws except those that specifically regulate the business of insurance. erisa also provides an exclusive remedial scheme for any action brought by erisa plan participants and beneficiaries. erisa has allowed plan administrators and plan fiduciaries to efficiently manage employee benefit plans in the united states. most group long-term and short-term disability plans administered by the company are governed by erisa. changes to erisa enacted by congress or via judicial interpretations could adversely affect the risk of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability. unum limited is subject to regulation by the fsa in the u.k. the fsa has broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict unum limited from doing business in the event that it fails to comply with u.k. laws and regulations. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. during 2002 and 2003, our u.s. insurance subsidiaries experienced increased market conduct examinations focused specifically on our disability claims handling policies and practices. these examinations by state insurance departments have generally involved a review of complaints from policyholders or insureds on a range of subjects and a review of disability claim files and associated materials from group long-term and individual disability product lines. because of the number of market conduct examinations initiated during 2002 and 2003, a coordinated multistate market conduct examination of our disability claims handling practices was organized during 2003 by maine, massachusetts, and tennessee, the states of domicile for several of our insurance subsidiaries. in november 2004, we entered into settlement agreements with state insurance regulators upon conclusion of the multistate market conduct examination. a total of 48 states and the district of columbia were parties to the settlement agreements. in addition, the dol, which had been conducting an inquiry relating to certain erisa plans, was a party to the settlement agreements, and the nyag, which had engaged in its own investigation of our claims handling practices, notified us that it was in support of the settlement and was, therefore, closing its investigation on this issue. in october 2005, we entered into a settlement agreement with the california department of insurance (doi), concluding a market conduct examination and investigation of the subsidiaries disability claims handling practices. 18 table of contents the california doi had chosen not to join the 2004 multistate settlement agreements. see previous discussion under regulation examinations and investigations contained herein in item 1, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7, and note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for additional information concerning these settlement agreements and other regulatory examinations and investigations. the 2004 multistate regulatory settlement agreements and the 2005 california doi settlement agreement resulted in changes in our claims handling practices and a process for reassessing certain claims. these and other regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in business practices, including changes in broker compensation and related disclosure practices, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, fines, and other administrative action. such results, singly or in combination, could injure our reputation, cause negative publicity, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, or impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, thereby adversely affecting our business, and potentially materially adversely affecting the results of operations in a period, depending on the results of operations for the particular period. determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct could also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. reserves reserves, whether calculated under gaap or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. there can be no assurance that any such reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. future loss development could require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. adjustments to reserve amounts may be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors), persistency, mortality, and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts. see critical accounting estimates included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings we compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. the downgrade of our financial strength ratings could adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. a downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to unum group or a negative outlook statement by a rating agency could have an effect on our ability to raise capital and on our cost of capital. see ratings contained herein in item 1 and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion of our ratings from these agencies. litigation the company and/or its subsidiaries directors and officers have been sued in over 20 purported class action and stockholder derivative lawsuits. these lawsuits are in a very preliminary stage, the outcome is uncertain, and we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible losses. reserves have not been established for these matters. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions could, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, materially adversely affect our results of operations, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings. 19 table of contents in addition to the claim related litigation described above, the company and its insurance subsidiaries, as part of their normal operations in managing claims, are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. we expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our consolidated financial position. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a period, depending on our results of operations for the particular period. we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. refer to note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for additional information on certain of the above legal proceedings. deferred acquisition costs, value of business acquired, and goodwill we defer certain costs incurred in acquiring new business and expense these costs over the life of the related policies. these costs include certain commissions, other agency compensation, selection and policy issue expenses, and field expenses. value of business acquired (voba) represents the present value of future profits recorded in connection with the acquisition of a block of insurance policies. deferred acquisition costs and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for deferred acquisition costs and voba is performed when, in our judgment, adverse deviations from original assumptions have occurred and may be likely to continue such that recoverability of deferred acquisition costs and/or voba on a line of business is questionable. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either deferred acquisition costs and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. goodwill is not amortized, but we review on an annual basis the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, with consideration given to financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. industry factors all of our businesses are highly regulated and competitive. our profitability is affected by a number of factors, including rate competition, frequency and severity of claims, lapse rates, government regulation, interest rates, and general business considerations. there are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against such companies in the future. see competition contained herein in item 1 for additional information on the competition we face. capital adequacy the capacity for an insurance company growth in premiums is in part a function of its statutory surplus. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by state insurance regulations, is considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities and the rating agencies that rate insurers claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. the individual rbc ratios for our u.s. insurance subsidiaries at december 31, 2007, were above the range that would require state regulatory action. if the naic or state regulators adopt revisions to the rbc formula, our insurance subsidiaries may require additional capital. the additional capital required may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. in addition, insurance companies in the u.k. are subject to regulation, including capital 20 table of contents adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, by the fsa. need for additional capital could limit a subsidiary ability to distribute funds to the holding company and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our debt and other payment obligations. disability insurance disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, work ethics, motivation, stability, and mores can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. the climate and the nature of competition in disability insurance have also been markedly affected by the growth of social security, workers compensation, and other governmental programs in the workplace. both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence for disability insurance. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. the relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. the pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ between product classes. our individual noncancelable disability policies, whereby the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business due to changes resulting from such factors. guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect external factors, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market. disability insurance products are important products for us. to the extent that disability products are adversely affected in the future as to sales or claims, our business or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. long-term care insurance long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new insurance product, the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to properly price the products and use appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves potentially has greater risk than that of other product offerings for which greater experience exists regarding trends and appropriate assumptions. mortality is a critical factor influencing the length of time a claimant receives long-term care benefits. mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy trends have extended. changes in actual mortality trends relative to assumptions may adversely affect our profitability. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect external factors, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval which can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented. group life insurance group life insurance may be affected by many factors, including the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with lower claim incidence rates, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks and natural disasters, which may also affect the availability of reinsurance coverage. changes in any of these factors may adversely affect our profitability. 21 table of contents epidemics, pandemics, terrorists attacks, natural disasters, or other extreme events extreme events, including terrorism, can affect the economy in general, our industry, and us specifically. such events could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, and in the event of extreme circumstances, our financial condition or viability. beyond obtaining coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from terrorism away from us. in particular, in the event of bioterrorism attacks, epidemics, or other extreme events, we could face significant health care costs depending on the government actions and the responsiveness of public health agencies and other insurers. in addition, we could also be adversely affected if we do not maintain adequate procedures to ensure disaster recovery and business continuity for our facilities and operations in the event of such occurrences. investments we maintain an investment portfolio that consists primarily of fixed income securities. the quality and/or yield of the portfolio may be affected by a number of factors, including the general economic and business environment, changes in the credit quality of the issuer, changes in market conditions, changes in interest rates, changes in foreign exchange rates, or regulatory changes. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, or a change in the issuer marketplace may adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest from the issuer. the investments we hold are predominantly invested to support the insurance liabilities of our subsidiaries. the timing and/or amount of the investment cash flows may not match those of the liabilities. the investments held by our insurance subsidiaries are highly regulated by specific legislation in each state that governs the type, amount, and credit quality of allowable investments. legislative changes could force us to restructure the portfolio in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment, with a resulting adverse effect on profitability and the level of statutory capital. we use derivative instruments to hedge interest rate risk and to manage duration match. our profitability may be adversely affected if a counterparty to the derivative defaults in its payment. this default risk is mitigated by cross-collateralization agreements. dividend restrictions unum group and certain of its intermediate holding company subsidiaries and/or finance subsidiaries rely on dividends or extensions of credit from our insurance company subsidiaries, including our u.s. insurance subsidiaries and unum limited, to make dividend payments on our common stock, meet debt payment obligations, and pay our other obligations. our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to affiliates. the level of statutory earnings and capital in our insurance subsidiaries could impact their ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to the holding company, which could impair our ability to pay our dividends or meet our debt and other payment obligations. see liquidity and capital resources included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for a discussion of the existing regulatory limitations on dividends. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to various market risk exposures, including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding our risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating our overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. we employ various derivative programs to manage these material market risks. see notes 4 and 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk our operations are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations, primarily long-term u.s. interest rates. changes in interest rates and individuals behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. we continually model and test asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios allows us to choose the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to prepare for disadvantageous outcomes. this analysis is the precursor to our activities in derivative financial instruments. we use interest rate swaps, interest rate forward contracts, exchange-traded interest rate futures contracts, and options to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. assuming an immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels, the net hypothetical decrease in stockholders equity related to financial and derivative instruments was estimated to be $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the fair values of mortgage loans, which are reported in our consolidated balance sheets at amortized cost, would decrease by approximately $60 million and $50 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, assuming a 100 basis point decrease in long-term interest rates from year end levels, the fair values of our short-term and long-term debt would increase approximately $140 million and $210 million, respectively. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds, private placement securities, and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities is estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values of long-term debt were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. foreign currency risk we are also subject to foreign exchange risk arising from our foreign operations and certain investment securities denominated in those local currencies. foreign operations represented 7.7 percent and 7.4 percent of total assets at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and 11.1 percent and 9.7 percent of total revenue from continuing operations for 2007 and 2006, respectively. assuming foreign exchange rates decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2007 and 2006 levels, stockholders equity and net income as of and for the periods then ended would not have been materially affected. 94 table of contents risk management we have an enterprise risk management (erm) program, with primary objectives of: improving our company risk-based decision making; effectively utilizing our capital to improve our company risk adjusted returns; improving and protecting shareholder value; and supporting efforts to minimize our reputational risk. our chief risk officer manages the erm program. we utilize a pyramid risk committee structure, beginning with our board of director committees and cascading down to business segment risk committees, to govern our erm process and manage our risks in an integrated manner. collectively, these committees are responsible for managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, operational, capital and liquidity, and reputational risks. an executive risk management committee is responsible for overseeing our corporate-wide risk management program. representative activities of this committee include, but are not limited to, reviewing risk reports, establishing corporate risk tolerance levels, providing direction on emerging risk issues, and reporting on a periodic basis to our board of directors. the following executives comprise the committee: our president and chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and chief actuary, our general counsel, the presidents of our three primary business units, our chief operating officer for unum u.s., our chief risk officer, and the senior vice president of internal audit. business unit risk committees for each of our three primary business units as well as our corporate function are responsible for identifying, measuring, reporting, and managing insurance and operational risks within their respective areas, consistent with corporate risk tolerance levels. market and credit risk are jointly managed and executed by our asset/liability and investment committees. 95 table of contentsgeographic areas segment operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our u.k. operations totaled $1,086.1 million, $1,171.8 million, and $1,017.5 million for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. these amounts were approximately 10.4 percent, 11.1 percent, and 9.7 percent of total segment operating revenue for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. total assets and total liabilities, as of december 31, 2008, were $2.9 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, for our u.k. operations. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency of our u.k. operations will impact our reported operating results. see risk factors contained herein in item 1a for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum uk operating results. employees at december 31, 2008, we had approximately 9,800 full-time employees. 14 table of contents index to financial statements available information our internet website address is www.unum.com . we make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. executive officers of the registrant our executive officers, all of whom are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by unum group board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. name age position thomas r. watjen 54 president and chief executive officer and a director robert o. best 59 executive vice president, chief operating officer unum us liston bishop iii 62 executive vice president and general counsel robert c. greving * 57 executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief actuary randall c. horn 56 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life kevin p. mccarthy 53 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us susan l. ring 48 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk * mr. greving has announced his intention to retire from the company during 2009. mr. watjen became president and chief executive officer in march 2003. he served as vice chairman and chief operating officer from may 2002 until march 2003. he became executive vice president, finance in june 1999 and assumed the additional risk management responsibilities in november 1999. mr. watjen originally joined a unum group predecessor company as executive vice president and chief financial officer in 1994. mr. best became executive vice president, chief operating officer unum us in january 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, service operations and chief information officer from january 2006. prior to that time, he served as executive vice president, the client services center, and chief information officer from may 2003. he served as senior vice president, customer loyalty services, and chief information officer from march 2000 until may 2003. mr. best originally joined a unum group predecessor company as senior vice president and chief information officer in 1994. mr. bishop became executive vice president and general counsel in october 2008. prior to this appointment, he served as interim general counsel beginning in april 2008. from august 1979 through september 2008, mr. bishop practiced corporate and securities law with the law firm of miller &amp; martin pllc, except during the period from january 2005 through july 2007 when he was employed as deputy general counsel and corporate secretary of coca-cola enterprises inc. mr. greving was named executive vice president and chief financial officer in may 2003 and appointed chief actuary in august 2005. he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer from may 2002 until may 2003. prior to that time, he served as senior vice president, finance from august 2000. mr. greving originally joined a unum group predecessor company as senior vice president and chief actuary in april 1997. mr. horn was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life in may 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer of colonial life &amp; accident insurance company from march 2004. before joining the company, he served as executive vice president of mutual of omaha insurance company from september 1981 until september 2003. 15 table of contents index to financial statements mr. mccarthy was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us in may 2007. he previously served as executive vice president, president, unum us from january 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, risk operations from january 2006. he previously served as executive vice president, underwriting from may 2003. he served as senior vice president, underwriting from november 2001 until may 2003 and as senior vice president, marketing, product development, and international from december 1999 until november 2001. mr. mccarthy originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1976. ms. ring was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk in may 2007. she previously served as executive vice president, chairman and managing director, unum limited from may 2006. she served as chairman and managing director of unum limited from december 2002 until november 2006. she served as operations director from 1999 until 2002 and prior to that time was director of risk management. ms. ring joined unum limited as director of customer services in 1995. 16 table of contents index to financial statements item 1a. risk factors we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. discussed below are certain factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases. the risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. see cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements contained herein on page 1. the general outlook for corporate bond defaults in 2009 is high relative to historical levels. defaults in our fixed maturity securities, mortgage loan, or short-term investment portfolios will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. investments are an integral part of our business, and our investments support our policyholder liabilities and shareholders equity. our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations. our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk. events or developments, such as the current economic conditions that could impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or could limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio. events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector. a default results in the recognition of an other than temporary impairment loss on the investment. a default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us. the fixed income markets are experiencing a period of extreme volatility and illiquidity which has resulted in credit downgrade events and increased probability of default. events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. there are many events, including but not limited to those discussed herein in item 1a, which may harm our reputation. depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business. damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital or increase our cost of capital. a decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, or financial condition. we compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. a downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. a downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to unum group or a negative outlook statement by a rating agency could have an effect on our ability to raise capital and on our cost of capital. see ratings contained herein in item 1 and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. 17 table of contents index to financial statements united kingdom currency translation risk could materially impact reported operating results. the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our financial results. in periods when the pound weakens, translating pounds into dollars decreases current period results relative to the prior period. in periods when the pound strengthens, translating pounds into dollars increases current period results in relation to the prior period. however, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert pounds into dollars. as a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. sustained declines in long-term interest rates or the rate of return on pension plan assets may have a negative effect on the funded status of our pension plans and/or increase our pension costs. the rate of return on pension plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period. declines in long-term interest rates or the fair value of our plan assets may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see critical accounting estimates included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. the current adverse economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our products or may result in higher disability claims incidence or longer claims duration. as a large financial institution, we are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, both in the united states and in the united kingdom. the adversity experienced in the capital markets and general economy that began in the middle of 2007 and worsened during 2008 may adversely affect our business and results of operations. in particular, factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses. given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, the demand for our products may be adversely affected. in addition, during such periods we may experience higher disability claims incidence, longer disability claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses. differences between actual claims experience and reserving assumptions may materially adversely affect our results or operations or financial condition. reserves, whether calculated under gaap or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. there can be no assurance that any such reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. adjustments to reserve amounts may be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors); persistency; mortality; policy benefit offsets, including those for social security; and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts. see critical accounting estimates included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. we and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation, which may affect the cost or demand for our products or may impact our profitability or growth. our insurance company subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions 18 table of contents index to financial statements in which we operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. because of recent events involving certain financial institutions, including insurance companies, it is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers at both the state and federal level. we cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. new programs may be enacted at the state or federal level that will compete with or diminish the need for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace. congress, as well as foreign, state, and local governments, could enact legislation related to changes in tax laws that could increase our tax costs or affect the desirability of our products to customers. most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by erisa. changes to erisa enacted by congress or via judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. during 2004 and 2005, certain of our insurance subsidiaries entered into settlement agreements with various regulators related to disability claims handling practices. the agreements resulted in changes in our claims handling practices and a process for reassessing certain claims. these and other regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in business practices, including changes in broker compensation and related disclosure practices, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, fines, and other administrative action. such results, singly or in combination, may injure our reputation, cause negative publicity, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, or impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, thereby adversely affecting our business, and potentially materially adversely affecting the results of operations. determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. see examinations and investigations contained herein in item 1 and legal and regulatory issues in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. our insurance products may be affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our profitability. disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. competition in disability insurance has also been markedly affected by the growth of social security, workers compensation, and other governmental programs in the workplace. both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence for disability insurance. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses. the relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. 19 table of contents index to financial statements the pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ between product classes. our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business due to changes resulting from such factors. guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market. long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products. this creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves. mortality is a critical factor influencing the length of time a claimant receives long-term care benefits. mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased. changes in actual mortality trends relative to assumptions may adversely affect our profitability. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval which can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all. due to the long duration of the product, we may be unable to purchase appropriate assets with cash flows and durations such that the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. group life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with lower claim incidence rates, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks and natural disasters, which may also affect the availability of reinsurance coverage. in addition to investment default risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. these risks include interest rate and credit spread fluctuations, the contractual terms of derivative contracts, the accuracy of valuations of securities, and the possibility that we might need to sell securities at disadvantageous times. fluctuations in interest rates affect our ability to earn the interest rates assumed in our policyholder reserves or reported in previous periods net investment income and also affect the fair value of our investment portfolio. a rise in interest rates may increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio, but may improve our ability to earn higher rates of return on new purchases of fixed income securities. conversely, a decline in interest rates may decrease the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio, but new securities may be purchased at lower rates of return. our exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads may increase the net unrealized loss position of the investment portfolio. credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities. we use derivative instruments to help us manage interest rate risk. while we use relatively simple over-the-counter instruments, they are complicated contracts. risks to our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity include: our hedges may become ineffective due to changes in expected future events for which we have hedged or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments. ineffectiveness of our hedges may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts. such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks. many of our counterparties are financial institutions, and the recent capital market turmoil has resulted in an increase in the risk of non-performance by many financial institutions. non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind the hedge. we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged. 20 table of contents index to financial statements under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral. this may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral. an increase in interest rates may result in losses at the time hedges are terminated, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. see note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for a discussion of our derivative financial instruments. we report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at market value. during periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities or to determine other than temporary impairments. valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we evaluate our investment portfolio for impairments. there can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken. additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. any event reducing the value of our securities other than on a temporary basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. while we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, we may in certain circumstances need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. events such as these may force us to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred income tax asset. factors in our ability to realize a tax benefit from our deferred income tax asset include the performance of our businesses and our ability to generate realized investment gains. if we determine that all or a portion of the deferred income tax asset will not result in a future tax benefit, a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income or other comprehensive income. such charges may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the likelihood of recording such a valuation increases during periods of economic downturn. an assessment by a governing tax authority may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws in a multitude of jurisdictions, both domestic and foreign. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect profitability. such an assessment may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. our overall risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. we have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, operations, capital and liquidity, and reputational risks. however, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for managing risk may not fully predict future exposures. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk contained herein in item 7a for further information about our risk management program. 21 table of contents index to financial statements litigation is common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and/or harm to our reputation. the company and/or its subsidiaries directors and officers have been sued in several purported class action and stockholder derivative lawsuits. the outcome of these lawsuits is uncertain, and we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible losses. reserves have not been established for these matters. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings. unum group and its insurance subsidiaries, as part of their normal operations in managing claims, are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. we expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. refer to note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings. we need to finance our ongoing operations, and this may not always be possible solely from internal sources of capital and liquidity. if we need to seek external capital, there is the risk that adverse market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital or our cost of capital. a decrease in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations. deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, and our business may suffer. if our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. if our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by state insurance regulations, is considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities and the rating agencies that rate insurers claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. if the naic or state regulators adopt revisions to the rbc formula, or if the fsa revises its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, our insurance subsidiaries may require additional capital. need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary ability to distribute funds to the holding company and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our debt and other payment obligations. obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be complicated in the current market environment. in some cases during the past year, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. the availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock holding in unum group. 22 table of contents index to financial statements see liquidity and capital resources included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability. all of our businesses are highly competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are integrated product choices, price, quality of customer service and claims management, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. we compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability. there are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against such companies in the future. see competition contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. we are subject to various operational risks resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or from external events which may damage our market position and reputation and/or adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we face challenges and risks associated with the development, sale, and retention of product offerings that meet the needs of our targeted markets; maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline; continued effective claim management and customer service performance; ongoing expense management; delivering effective technology solutions; continued execution of our capital management strategy; and the successful implementation of operational improvements and strategic growth initiatives. failure to successfully manage our operational risks may adversely affect our competitiveness, profitability, or financial condition. our subsidiaries may be restricted from paying dividends to our holding companies. unum group and certain of its subsidiaries rely on dividends from our insurance and non-insurance company subsidiaries to make dividend payments on our common stock, meet debt payment obligations, and pay our other obligations. our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to affiliates. the level of statutory earnings and capital in our insurance subsidiaries could impact their ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to our holding companies, which could impair our ability to pay our dividends or meet our debt and other payment obligations. see liquidity and capital resources included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for a discussion of the existing regulatory limitations on dividends. reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue. the collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 23 table of contents index to financial statements we have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (dac), value of business acquired (voba), and goodwill. we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we defer certain costs incurred in acquiring new business and expense these costs over the life of the related policies. these costs include certain commissions, other agency compensation, selection and policy issue expenses, and field expenses. voba represents the present value of future profits recorded in connection with the acquisition of a block of insurance policies. dac and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for dac and voba is performed on an annual basis. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either dac and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. extreme events, including terrorism, can affect the economy in general, our industry, and us specifically. events such as epidemics, pandemics, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, or other extreme events may materially adversely affect our business, the level of claims, or our results of operations, and in the event of extreme circumstances, our financial condition or viability. beyond obtaining insurance coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events away from us. the continued threat of terrorism could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. in the event of nuclear or bioterrorism attacks, epidemics, or other extreme events, we could face significant costs depending on the government actions and the responsiveness of public agencies and other insurers. in addition, we may also be adversely affected if we do not maintain adequate procedures to ensure disaster recovery and business continuity for our facilities and operations in the event of such occurrences. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board (fasb) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles in both the united states and the united kingdom, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the fasb. market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to expose new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. it is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our financial statements and that such changes may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we also face other risks that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition, including but not limited to: a significant deficiency in our internal controls over financial reporting; any requirement to restate financial results due to inappropriate application of accounting principles; risks associated with security or interruption of information systems, which could cause, among other things, operational disruption; failure to adequately plan for succession of our senior management and other key executives; and failure of our processes to prevent and detect fraud and/or unethical conduct of employees. 24 table of contents index to financial statements quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to various market risk exposures, including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding our risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating our overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. see investments contained herein in item 7 and notes 4 and 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate changes results from our holdings of financial instruments such as fixed rate investments, derivatives, and interest-sensitive liabilities. fixed rate investments include fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, and short-term investments. fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and redeemable preferred stock, all of which are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations. certain of our financial instruments, fixed maturity securities and derivatives, are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of these financial instruments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. a rise in interest rates may increase the net unrealized loss related to these financial instruments, but may improve our ability to earn higher rates of return on new purchases of fixed maturity securities. conversely, a decline in interest rates may decrease the net unrealized loss, but new securities may be purchased at lower rates of return. although changes in fair value of fixed maturity securities and derivatives due to changes in interest rates may impact amounts reported in our consolidated balance sheets, these changes will not cause an economic gain or loss unless we sell investments, terminate derivative positions, determine that an investment is other than temporarily impaired, or determine that a derivative instrument is no longer an effective hedge. other fixed rate investments, such as mortgage loans and policy loans, are carried at amortized cost and unpaid balances, respectively, rather than fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. these investments may have fair values substantially higher or lower than the carrying values reflected in our balance sheets. a change in interest rates could impact our financial position if we sold our mortgage loan investments at times of low market value. a change in interest rates would not impact our financial position at repayment of policy loans, as ultimately the cash surrender values or death benefits would be reduced for the carrying value of any outstanding policy loans. carrying amounts for short-term investments approximate fair value, and we believe we have minimal interest rate risk exposure from these investments. we believe that the risk of being forced to liquidate investments or terminate derivative positions is minimal, primarily due to the level of capital at our insurance subsidiaries, our holding company liquidity position, and our investment strategy which we believe provides for adequate cash flows to meet the funding requirements of our business. we may in certain circumstances, however, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. although the majority of our liabilities related to insurance contracts are not interest rate sensitive and we therefore have minimal exposure to policy withdrawal risk, the fair values of liabilities under all insurance contracts are taken into consideration in our overall management of interest rate risk, which minimizes exposure to changing interest rates through the matching of investment cash flows with amounts due under insurance contracts. changes in interest rates and individuals behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. we actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to minimize interest rate risk. we model and test asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios allows us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to prepare for disadvantageous outcomes. this analysis is the precursor to our activities in derivative financial instruments. we use current and forward interest rate swaps, currency forward contracts, forward treasury locks, and options on forward interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. 106 table of contents index to financial statements short-term and long-term debt are not carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. if we modify or replace existing short-term or long-term debt instruments at current market rates, we may incur a gain or loss on the transaction. we believe our debt-related risk to changes in interest rates is relatively minimal. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. our short-term debt repayment requirements for 2009 can be met through existing cash flows. we measure our financial instruments market risk related to changes in interest rates using a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates potential changes in fair values as of december 31, 2008 and 2007 based on a hypothetical immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels. the selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. the hypothetical potential changes in fair value of our financial instruments at december 31, 2008 and 2007 are shown as follows: december 31, 2008 notional hypothetical (in millions of dollars) amount of derivatives fair value fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 32,134.1 $ 29,719.2 $ (2,414.9) mortgage loans 1,224.4 1,206.3 (18.1) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 255.4 242.4 (13.0) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and other (2) $ 809.8 $ 1,921.9 $ 1,112.1 short-term debt (188.9) (188.5) 0.4 long-term debt (1,677.4) (1,614.4) 63.0 derivatives (1) swaps $ 2,265.8 $ 242.2 $ 156.2 $ (86.0) forwards 266.3 60.2 65.0 4.8 dig issue b36 embedded derivative (360.5) (330.3) 30.2 107 table of contents index to financial statements december 31, 2007 notional hypothetical (in millions of dollars) amount of derivatives fair value fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 35,814.7 $ 32,984.5 $ (2,830.2) mortgage loans 1,079.8 1,019.8 (60.0) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 228.7 218.3 (10.4) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and other (2) $ (859.3) $ 299.6 $ 1,158.9 short-term debt (175.3) (174.5) 0.8 long-term debt (2,673.8) (2,530.8) 143.0 derivatives (1) swaps $ 2,590.6 $ (69.0) $ (208.0) $ (139.0) forwards 315.1 (28.8) (10.8) 18.0 options 80.0 6.6 1.8 (4.8) dig issue b36 embedded derivative (68.8) (77.9) (9.1) (1) these assets and liabilities are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates may affect the fair value at which the item is reported in our consolidated balance sheets with a corresponding offsetting change reported in other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes. (2) the adjustment to reserves and other for unrealized investment gains and losses reflects the adjustments that would be necessary to deferred acquisition costs and policyholder liabilities if the unrealized investment gains and losses related to the fixed maturity securities and derivatives had been realized. changes in this adjustment are also reported as a component of other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities was estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values shown in the chart above for all other items were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. foreign currency risk the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. we are exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in the british pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rates primarily as they relate to the translation of the financial results of our u.k. operations. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results. we do not hedge against the possible impact of this risk. because we do not actually convert pounds into dollars except for a limited number of transactions, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. 108 table of contents index to financial statements assuming the pound to dollar exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2008 and 2007 levels, stockholders equity as reported in u.s. dollars as of and for the periods then ended would have been lower by approximately $72.8 million and $98.2 million, respectively. assuming the pound to dollar average exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the actual average exchange rates for 2008 and 2007, segment operating income, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses and income tax, as reported in u.s. dollars would have decreased approximately $33.5 million and $33.8 million, respectively, for the years then ended. dividends paid by unum limited are generally held at our u.k. finance subsidiary. if these funds are repatriated to our u.s. holding company, we would at that time be subject to foreign currency risk as the value of the dividend, when converted into u.s. dollars, would be dependent upon the foreign exchange rate at the time of conversion. we are also exposed to foreign currency risk related to certain foreign investment securities denominated in local currencies and u.s. dollar denominated debt issued by one of our u.k. subsidiaries. we use current and forward currency swaps and contracts to hedge or minimize the foreign exchange risk associated with these instruments. see unum uk segment contained herein in item 7 for further information concerning foreign currency translation and note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussions of derivative financial instrument activity. risk management we have an enterprise risk management (erm) program. our erm program strives to: identify, measure, mitigate as appropriate, and report on our risk positions and exposures, including notable risk events; provide an assessment of our material risks, including how they affect us, how individual risks interrelate, and how management addresses the risks; coordinate development of and compliance with risk appetite statements, including systematic limit monitoring; identify emerging risks and analyze how material future risks might impact us; practice strong risk management, including ensuring diversification across and within business units; and fulfill regulatory, rating agency, and governance objectives. we employ a pyramid risk committee structure, beginning with unum group board of director committees and cascading down to business unit risk committees, to govern our erm process and manage our risks in an integrated manner. collectively, these committees are responsible for managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, operational, capital and liquidity, and reputational risks. business unit risk committees for each of our three primary business units as well as our corporate function are responsible for identifying, measuring, reporting, and managing insurance and operational risks within their respective areas, consistent with established corporate risk tolerance levels. we manage insurance and operational risk at the business unit level, based on consistent principles and policies established at the corporate level. internal quality controls are routinely monitored by the risk committees. market and credit risk are jointly managed by our investment committee, which is also responsible for monitoring our investment risk appetite and ratifying investment transactions. capital and liquidity risk is under the purview of the capital management committee, which is responsible for planning and monitoring capital allocation, financing, liquidity, and solvency considerations. an executive risk management committee is responsible for overseeing our enterprise-wide risk management program that is managed by our chief risk officer. the executive management team is responsible for managing our strategic risk. we provide an erm report to the audit committee of unum group board of directors on a regular basis. we believe that by effectively executing against these objectives we will be better positioned to fulfill our corporate mission, improve and protect shareholder value, and reduce reputational risk. 109 table of contents index to financial statementsregulation general our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and oversight by insurance departments in jurisdictions in which they do business and by the u.s. department of labor (dol) on a national basis, primarily for the protection of policyholders. unum limited is subject to regulation by the financial services authority (fsa) in the u.k. the state insurance departments in the united states and the fsa in the u.k. have broad administrative powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business and, in particular, monitor the manner in which an insurance company offers, sells, and administers its products. this monitoring may include reviewing sales practices, including the content and use of advertising materials and the licensing and appointing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, and customer service practices. the dol enforces a comprehensive 12 table of contents federal statute which regulates claims paying fiduciary responsibilities and reporting and disclosure requirements for most employee benefit plans. our domestic insurance subsidiaries must meet the standards and tests for investments imposed by state insurance laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled. domestic insurance subsidiaries operate under insurance laws which require they establish and carry, as liabilities, statutory reserves to meet policyholder obligations. these reserves are verified periodically by various regulators. our domestic insurance subsidiaries are examined periodically by examiners from their states of domicile and by other states in which they are licensed to conduct business. the domestic examinations have traditionally emphasized financial matters from the perspective of protection of policyholders, but they can and have covered other subjects that an examining state may be interested in reviewing, such as market conduct issues. other states more typically perform market conduct examinations that include a review of a company sales practices, including advertising and licensing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, and customer service practices to determine compliance with state laws. examinations and investigations claim-related during 2004 and 2005, certain of our insurance subsidiaries entered into settlement agreements with various regulators related to disability claims handling practices. the agreements provide for changes in certain of our claims handling procedures and a claim reassessment process available to certain claimants whose claims were denied or closed during specified periods. during 2007, we completed the claim reassessment process required by the 2004 and 2005 regulatory settlement agreements. the lead regulators conducted a final examination and presented their findings to unum group board of directors and management in april 2008. the report of the multistate market conduct examination and the report of the california department of insurance market conduct examination provided that we satisfactorily complied with each of the agreements mandates and that no fines would be assessed. we continue to work closely with our regulators and also continue to work toward resolution of other outstanding legal and regulatory issues. broker compensation, quoting process, and other matters beginning in 2004, several of our insurance subsidiaries insurance regulators requested information relating to the subsidiaries policies and practices on one or more aspects of broker compensation, quoting insurance business, and related matters. additionally, we have responded to investigations about certain of these same matters by state attorneys general and the dol. following highly publicized litigation involving the alleged practices of a major insurance broker, the national association of insurance commissioners (naic) has undertaken to provide a uniform compensation disclosure amendment to the producer licensing model act that can be adopted by states in an effort to provide uniform guidance to insurers, brokers, and customers relating to disclosure of broker compensation. we expect there to be continued uncertainty surrounding this matter until clearer regulatory guidelines are established. in june 2004, we received a subpoena from the office of the new york attorney general (nyag) requesting documents and information relating to compensation arrangements between insurance brokers or intermediaries and our companies. in november 2006, we entered into a settlement agreement with the nyag in the form of an assurance of discontinuance that provided for a national restitution fund of $15.5 million. our restitution obligations under this agreement were completed in 2009. in november 2009, we were contacted by florida state insurance regulators to discuss a resolution of their investigation of our compliance with state and federal laws with respect to producer compensation, solicitation activities, policies sold to state or municipal entities, and information regarding compensation arrangements with brokers. this investigation had been commenced in 2005, and, until this most recent contact, we had received no communications from the regulators regarding this matter since december 2007. 13 table of contents capital requirements risk-based capital (rbc) standards for u.s. life insurance companies have been prescribed by the naic. the domiciliary states of our u.s. insurance subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the rbc model formula of the naic, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers. the basis of the system is a risk-based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. the life and health rbc formula is designed to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks. the formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. the formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers generally. unum limited is subject to regulation, including capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, by the fsa in the u.k. current solvency standards require an insurance company to hold capital equal to the greater of (i) a formulaic calculation of capital related to liabilities or (ii) a risk-based assessment of capital which is company specific reflecting the insurance company individual risk profile. in 2012, unum limited will adopt new capital requirements and risk management standards, solvency ii, resulting from a fundamental review of the capital adequacy standards for the european insurance industry. solvency ii will replace the current capital requirements for unum limited. solvency ii requirements are still being developed and have not yet been adopted, but the current proposals contain new requirements on capital adequacy and risk management for insurers, including (i) requirements to demonstrate adequate financial resources, including quantitative requirements, technical provisions, and calculation of solvency ii capital requirements through either an approved full or partial internal model or the european standard formula approach (ii) requirements to demonstrate an adequate system of governance, including effective risk management and prospective risk identification, and (iii) disclosure and regulatory reporting requirements. see further discussion in risk factors contained herein in item 1a and liquidity and capital resources contained herein in item 7. insurance holding company regulation the insurance holding company laws and regulations of the states of maine, massachusetts, tennessee, south carolina, new york, vermont, and california require the registration of and periodic reporting of financial and other information about operations, including inter-company transactions within the system, by insurance companies domiciled within their jurisdiction which control or are controlled by other corporations or persons so as to constitute an insurance holding company system. unum group is registered under such laws as an insurance holding company system in maine, massachusetts, tennessee, south carolina, new york, vermont, and california. most states, including the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, have laws and regulations that require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurer or an insurer holding company. where such laws and regulations apply to unum group and its insurance subsidiaries, there can be no effective change in control of unum group unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement with specified information with the insurance regulators and has obtained prior approval for the proposed change from such regulators. the usual measure for a presumptive change of control pursuant to these laws is the acquisition of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its parent, although this presumption is rebuttable. consequently, a person acquiring 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its parent without the prior approval of the insurance regulators in the states in which the company insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or deemed to be domiciled will be in violation of these laws. such a person may also be subject to one or more of the following actions: (i) injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the applicable insurance regulator; (ii) prohibition of voting of such shares; and, (iii) other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulator. further, many states insurance laws require prior notification to state insurance regulators of a change of control of a non-domiciled insurance company doing business in that state. these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance regulators to disapprove the change in control; however, they do authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular 14 table of contents conditions exist such as undue market concentration. any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of unum group may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-notification laws. these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of unum group, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of the stockholders of unum group might consider to be desirable. in addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective stockholders, including unum group and certain of its intermediate holding company subsidiaries and/or finance subsidiaries. see further discussion in risk factors contained herein in item 1a and liquidity and capital resources cash available from subsidiaries contained herein in item 7. unum group may also from time to time be subject to regulation under applicable regulations and reporting requirements in the foreign jurisdictions in which it or its affiliates do business or have done business. federal laws and regulations the usa patriot act of 2001 (patriot act), enacted in response to the terrorist attack on september 11, 2001, contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. the patriot act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. anti-money laundering laws outside of the united states contain some similar provisions. the increased obligations of financial institutions to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, require the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls. for further discussion of regulation, refer to risk factors contained herein in item 1a. geographic areas segment operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our u.k. operations totaled $828.2 million, $1,086.1 million, and $1,171.8 million for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. these amounts were approximately 8.2 percent, 10.4 percent, and 11.1 percent of total segment operating revenue for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. total assets and total liabilities, as of december 31, 2009, were $3.6 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, for our u.k. operations. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency of our u.k. operations will impact our reported operating results. see risk factors contained herein in item 1a for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum uk operating results. employees at december 31, 2009, we had approximately 9,700 full-time employees. available information our internet website address is www.unum.com . we make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. 15 table of contents executive officers of the registrant our executive officers, all of whom are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by unum group board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. name age position thomas r. watjen 55 president and chief executive officer and a director robert o. best 60 executive vice president, chief operating officer unum us liston bishop iii 63 executive vice president and general counsel randall c. horn 57 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life kevin p. mccarthy 54 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us richard p. mckenney 41 executive vice president and chief financial officer susan l. ring 49 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk mr. watjen became president and chief executive officer in march 2003. he served as vice chairman and chief operating officer from may 2002 until march 2003. he became executive vice president, finance in june 1999 and assumed the additional risk management responsibilities in november 1999. mr. watjen originally joined a unum group predecessor company as executive vice president and chief financial officer in 1994. mr. best became executive vice president, chief operating officer unum us in january 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, service operations and chief information officer from january 2006. prior to that time, he served as executive vice president, the client services center, and chief information officer from may 2003. he served as senior vice president, customer loyalty services, and chief information officer from march 2000 until may 2003. mr. best originally joined a unum group predecessor company as senior vice president and chief information officer in 1994. mr. bishop became executive vice president and general counsel in october 2008. prior to this appointment, he officially began serving as interim general counsel in april 2008. from august 1979 through september 2008, mr. bishop practiced corporate and securities law with the law firm of miller &amp; martin pllc, except during the period from january 2005 through july 2007 when he was employed as deputy general counsel and corporate secretary of coca-cola enterprises inc. mr. horn was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life in may 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer of colonial life &amp; accident insurance company from march 2004. before joining the company, he served as executive vice president of mutual of omaha insurance company from september 1981 until september 2003. mr. mccarthy was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us in may 2007. he previously served as executive vice president, president, unum us from january 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, risk operations from january 2006. he previously served as executive vice president, underwriting from may 2003. he served as senior vice president, underwriting from november 2001 until may 2003 and as senior vice president, marketing, product development, and international from december 1999 until november 2001. mr. mccarthy originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1976. mr. mckenney was named executive vice president and chief financial officer in august 2009, having joined the company in july 2009. before joining the company, mr. mckenney served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of sun life financial inc., an international financial services company, since february 2007, having joined that company as executive vice president in september 2006. he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of genworth financial, inc., a global financial security company, from may 2004 until august 2006. 16 table of contents ms. ring was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk in may 2007. she previously served as executive vice president, chairman and managing director, unum limited from may 2006. she served as chairman and managing director of unum limited from december 2002 until november 2006. she served as operations director from 1999 until 2002 and prior to that time was director of risk management. ms. ring joined unum limited as director of customer services in 1995. item 1a. risk factors we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. discussed below are certain factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases. the risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. see cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements contained herein on page 1. unfavorable economic conditions may result in lower premium growth, higher disability claims incidence, or longer claims duration. as a large financial institution, we are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, both in the united states and in the united kingdom. adversity in the capital markets and the general economy may adversely affect our business and results of operations. in particular, factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses. given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, new product sales may be adversely affected. our premium growth may also be negatively impacted by lower premium growth from existing customers due to lower salary growth and lower growth in the number of employees covered under an existing policy. in addition, during such periods we may experience higher disability claims incidence, longer disability claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses. we and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation, which may affect the cost or demand for our products, may increase capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, or may impact our profitability or growth. our insurance company subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. it is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are domiciled and operate. we cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. the naic or state regulators may adopt revisions to the rbc formula, the fsa may revise its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, other jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate may increase their capital requirements, or rating agencies may incorporate higher capital thresholds into their quantitative analyses, thus requiring additional capital for our insurance subsidiaries. increased financial services regulation, such as the european commission solvency ii, may impose greater quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and disclosure requirements and may impact the business strategies, capital requirements, and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. 17 table of contents new programs, including healthcare reform or financial services sector reform, may be enacted at the state or federal level that will compete with or diminish the need for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace. congress, as well as foreign, state, and local governments, could enact legislation related to changes in tax laws that could increase our tax costs or affect the desirability of our products to customers. legislative changes related to pension funding requirements could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and our profitability. most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by erisa. changes to erisa enacted by congress or via judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in our claims handling practices, changes in business practices, including changes in broker compensation and related disclosure practices, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, fines, and other administrative action. such results, singly or in combination, may injure our reputation, cause negative publicity, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, or impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, thereby adversely affecting our business, and potentially materially adversely affecting the results of operations. determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. see examinations and investigations contained herein in item 1, regulatory issues in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7, and note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. sustained periods of low interest rates in the long-term investment market may adversely affect our reported net investment income and our ability to purchase securities at rates of return assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. an interest, or discount, rate is used in calculating our policyholder reserves. we set our reserve discount rate assumptions based on our current and expected future investment yield for assets supporting the reserves, considering current and expected future market conditions. continued low interest rates and yields on corporate bonds may cause the rates of return on our investment portfolio to decrease more than expected, leading to lower net investment income than assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products. if the discount rate assumed in our reserve calculations is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets will not earn enough investment income to support our future claim payments. in that case, the reserves may eventually be insufficient. see reserves for policy and contract benefits contained herein in item 1 and critical accounting estimates included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. changes in the risk results of our segments or lines of businesses may materially adversely affect our results or operations or financial condition. in recent years, we have experienced improved risk results in most lines of business, with lower benefits and change in reserves for future benefits relative to premium income. these results may not be indicative of future performance due to, among other things, changes in our mix of business, re-pricing of certain lines of business, or any number of economic cyclical effects on our business. in addition, reserves, whether calculated under gaap or 18 table of contents statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. actual claim experience may differ from our reserve assumptions. there can be no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. adjustments to reserve amounts may be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors); persistency; mortality (improved life expectancies may require an increase in reserves for long-tailed products such as individual disability and long-term care); policy benefit offsets, including those for social security; and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts. see reserves for policy and contract benefits contained herein in item 1 and critical accounting estimates included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. in addition to interest rate risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. these risks include default risk, credit spread fluctuations, the contractual terms of derivative contracts, the accuracy of valuations of securities, and the possibility that we might need to sell securities at disadvantageous times. investments are an integral part of our business, and our investments support our policyholder liabilities and shareholders equity. our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations. our investment portfolio also includes perpetual debentures, or hybrid securities. interest on these securities due on any payment date may be deferred by the issuer. because interest payments are deferrable and because these securities rank behind traditional debt obligations, events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may have a greater adverse effect on these types of investments than on our traditional fixed maturity securities. our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk. events or developments, such as economic conditions that impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio. events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector. a default results in the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment loss on the investment. a default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us. the probability of credit downgrades and defaults increases when the fixed income markets experience periods of volatility and illiquidity. our exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads may increase the net unrealized loss position of the investment portfolio. credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities. we use derivative instruments to help us manage interest rate risk. risks to our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity include: our hedges may become ineffective due to changes in expected future events for which we have hedged or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments. ineffectiveness of our hedges may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 19 table of contents if we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts. such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks. many of our counterparties are financial institutions, and capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance by financial institutions. non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind the hedge. we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged. under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral. this may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral. an increase in interest rates may result in losses at the time hedges are terminated, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at market value. valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, particularly during periods of market disruption, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we evaluate our investment portfolio for impairments. there can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken. additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. any event reducing the value of our securities other than on a temporary basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. while we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, we may in certain circumstances need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. events such as these may force us to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see critical accounting estimates included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 3, 4, and 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of our investments and derivatives. competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability. all of our businesses are highly competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are integrated product choices, price, quality of customer service and claims management, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. we compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability. the level and intensity of competition may grow due to existing competitors becoming more aggressive, new competitors entering the market, and an increase in merger and acquisition activity which may result in larger competitors with greater financial resources. the choices made by the u.s. treasury department in its distribution of amounts available under various capital relief programs have the effect of supporting some in the financial services industry more than others or providing advantages to some of our competitors. there are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies and new competitors in the future. see competition contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. a decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, or financial condition. we compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. a downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact 20 table of contents persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. a downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to unum group or a negative outlook statement by a rating agency could have an effect on our ability to raise capital and on our cost of capital. see ratings contained herein in item 1 and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. there are many events which may harm our reputation. these events could include but are not limited to those discussed herein in item 1a regarding regulatory examinations and investigations concerning disability claims handling procedures and our practices on one or more aspects of broker compensation and related matters, as well as legal proceedings which have previously and may in the future result in court rulings and jury verdicts against us. our reliance on independent contractors and brokers to distribute many of our products exposes our reputation to the possibility of being damaged by sales practices over which we have no means of direct control. depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business. damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital or increase our cost of capital. see examinations and investigations contained herein in item 1, regulatory issues in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7, and note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for additional information on regulatory matters and legal proceedings. volatility in long-term interest rates or the rate of return on pension plan assets may have a negative effect on the funded status of our pension plans and/or increase our pension costs. the rate of return on pension plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period. declines in long-term interest rates or the fair value of our plan assets may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. conversely, a rise in interest rates could unfavorably impact the fair value of both the fixed income and equity investments in our pension plans. see critical accounting estimates included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. our insurance products may be affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our profitability. disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. competition in disability insurance has also been markedly affected by the growth of social security, workers compensation, and other governmental programs in the workplace. both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence for disability insurance. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses. the relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. the pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ between product classes. our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business due to changes resulting from 21 table of contents economic, societal, or other factors. guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market. long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products. this creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval which can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all. due to the long duration of the product, we may be unable to purchase appropriate assets with cash flows and durations such that the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives long-term disability and long-term care benefits. changes in actual mortality trends relative to assumptions may adversely affect our profitability for these product lines. group life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with lower claim incidence rates, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks and natural disasters, which may also affect the availability of reinsurance coverage. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board (fasb), the international accounting standards board (iasb), the u.k. accounting standards board (asb), or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles in both the united states and the united kingdom, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the fasb and asb. it is likely that, in the near future, both the united states and the united kingdom will adopt international financial reporting standards (ifrs) issued by the iasb. future accounting standards we are required to adopt will change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our financial statements. it is possible that such changes may have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition. an assessment by a governing tax authority may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws in a multitude of jurisdictions, both domestic and foreign. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect profitability. such an assessment may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred income tax asset. factors in our ability to realize a tax benefit from our deferred income tax asset include the performance of our businesses and our ability to generate realized investment gains. if we determine that all or a portion of the deferred income tax asset will not result in a future tax benefit, a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income or other comprehensive income. such charges may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the likelihood of recording such a valuation increases during periods of economic downturn. our overall risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. we have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, operations, capital and liquidity, and reputational risks. however, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for managing risk may not fully predict future 22 table of contents exposures. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk contained herein in item 7a for further information about our risk management program. litigation is common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and/or harm to our reputation. unum group and/or its subsidiaries directors and officers have been sued in several lawsuits. the outcome of these lawsuits is uncertain, and we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible losses. reserves have not been established for these matters. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings. unum group and its insurance subsidiaries, as part of their normal operations in managing claims, are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. we expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. refer to note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings. united kingdom currency translation risk could materially impact reported operating results. the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our financial results. in periods when the pound weakens, translating pounds into dollars decreases current period results relative to the prior period. in periods when the pound strengthens, translating pounds into dollars increases current period results in relation to the prior period. however, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert pounds into dollars. as a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. we are subject to various operational risks resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or from external events which may damage our market position and reputation and/or adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we face challenges and risks associated with the development, sale, and retention of product offerings that meet the needs of our targeted markets; maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline; continued effective claim management and customer service performance; ongoing expense management; delivering effective technology solutions; continued execution of our capital management strategy; and the successful implementation of operational improvements and strategic growth initiatives. failure to successfully manage our operational risks may adversely affect our competitiveness, profitability, or financial condition. we need to finance our ongoing operations, and this may not always be possible solely from internal sources of capital and liquidity. if we need to seek external capital, there is the risk that adverse market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital or our cost of capital. a decrease in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations. deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, and our 23 table of contents business may suffer. if our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. if our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by state insurance regulations, is considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities and the rating agencies that rate insurers claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. if the naic or state regulators adopt revisions to the rbc formula, or if the fsa revises its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, our insurance subsidiaries may require additional capital. need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary ability to distribute funds to the holding company and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our debt and other payment obligations. obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be complicated in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty. the markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. the availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock holding in unum group. see liquidity and capital resources included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. our subsidiaries may be restricted from paying dividends to our holding companies. unum group and certain of its subsidiaries rely on dividends from our insurance and non-insurance company subsidiaries to make dividend payments on our common stock, meet debt payment obligations, and pay our other obligations. our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to affiliates. the level of statutory earnings and capital in our insurance subsidiaries could impact their ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to our holding companies, which could impair our ability to pay our dividends or meet our debt and other payment obligations. see liquidity and capital resources included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for a discussion of the existing regulatory limitations on dividends. reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue. the collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 24 table of contents we have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (dac), value of business acquired (voba), and goodwill. we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we defer certain costs incurred in acquiring new business and expense these costs over the life of the related policies. these costs include certain commissions, other agency compensation, selection and policy issue expenses, and field expenses. voba represents the present value of future profits recorded in connection with the acquisition of a block of insurance policies. dac and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for dac and voba is performed on an annual basis. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either dac and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. extreme events, including terrorism, can affect the economy in general, our industry, and us specifically. events such as epidemics, pandemics, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, or other extreme events may materially adversely affect our business, the level of claims, or our results of operations, and in the event of extreme circumstances, our financial condition or viability. beyond obtaining insurance coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events away from us. the continued threat of terrorism could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. in the event of nuclear or bioterrorism attacks, epidemics, or other extreme events, we could face significant costs depending on the government actions and the responsiveness of public agencies and other insurers. in addition, we may also be adversely affected if we do not maintain adequate procedures to ensure disaster recovery and business continuity for our facilities and operations in the event of such occurrences. we also face other risks that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition, including but not limited to: a significant deficiency in our internal controls over financial reporting; any requirement to restate financial results due to inappropriate application of accounting principles; risks associated with security or interruption of information systems, which could cause, among other things, operational disruption and reputational harm; a guaranty fund assessment by a governing regulatory body to cover the proportional cost of an insolvent or failed insurer; failure to adequately plan for succession of our senior management and other key executives; and failure of our processes to prevent and detect fraud and/or unethical conduct of employees. 25 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to various market risk exposures, including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding our risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating our overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. see investments contained herein in item 7 and notes 3, 4, and 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate changes results from our holdings of financial instruments such as fixed rate investments, derivatives, and interest-sensitive liabilities. fixed rate investments include fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, and short-term investments. fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and redeemable preferred stock, all of which are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations. certain of our financial instruments, fixed maturity securities and derivatives, are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of these financial instruments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. a rise in interest rates may increase the net unrealized loss related to these financial instruments, but may improve our ability to earn higher rates of return on new purchases of fixed maturity securities. conversely, a decline in interest rates may decrease the net unrealized loss, but new securities may be purchased at lower rates of return. although changes in fair value of fixed maturity securities and derivatives due to changes in interest rates may impact amounts reported in our consolidated balance sheets, these changes will not cause an economic gain or loss unless we sell investments, terminate derivative positions, determine that an investment is other than temporarily impaired, or determine that a derivative instrument is no longer an effective hedge. other fixed rate investments, such as mortgage loans and policy loans, are carried at amortized cost and unpaid balances, respectively, rather than fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. these investments may have fair values substantially higher or lower than the carrying values reflected in our balance sheets. a change in interest rates could impact our financial position if we sold our mortgage loan investments at times of low market value. a change in interest rates would not impact our financial position at repayment of policy loans, as ultimately the cash surrender values or death benefits would be reduced for the carrying value of any outstanding policy loans. carrying amounts for short-term investments approximate fair value, and we believe we have minimal interest rate risk exposure from these investments. we believe that the risk of being forced to liquidate investments or terminate derivative positions is minimal, primarily due to the level of capital at our insurance subsidiaries, the level of cash and marketable securities at our holding companies, and our investment strategy which we believe provides for adequate cash flows to meet the funding requirements of our business. we may in certain circumstances, however, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. although the majority of our liabilities related to insurance contracts are not interest rate sensitive and we therefore have minimal exposure to policy withdrawal risk, the fair values of liabilities under all insurance contracts are taken into consideration in our overall management of interest rate risk, which minimizes exposure to changing interest rates through the matching of investment cash flows with amounts due under insurance contracts. changes in interest rates and individuals behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. we actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to mitigate interest rate risk. we model and test asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios allows us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to prepare for disadvantageous outcomes. this analysis is the precursor to our activities in derivative financial instruments. we use current and forward interest rate swaps and options on forward interest rate swaps, interest rate forward contracts, forward treasury locks, and 96 table of contents forward contracts on specific fixed income securities to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. short-term and long-term debt are not carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. if we modify or replace existing short-term or long-term debt instruments at current market rates, we may incur a gain or loss on the transaction. we believe our debt-related risk to changes in interest rates is relatively minimal. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. we measure our financial instruments market risk related to changes in interest rates using a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates potential changes in fair values as of december 31, 2009 and 2008 based on a hypothetical immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels. the selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. the hypothetical potential changes in fair value of our financial instruments at december 31, 2009 and 2008 are shown as follows: december 31, 2009 notional hypothetical (in millions of dollars) amount of derivatives fair value fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 37,914.4 $ 34,930.8 $ (2,983.6) mortgage loans 1,402.5 1,336.4 (66.1) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 232.0 219.9 (12.1) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and other (2) $ (1,541.7) $ 113.3 $ 1,655.0 long-term debt (2,296.0) (2,204.1) 91.9 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,615.9 $ (63.1) $ (87.9) $ (24.8) forwards 4.8 (0.4) (0.2) 0.2 embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (117.4) (121.5) (4.1) 97 table of contents december 31, 2008 notional hypothetical (in millions of dollars) amount of derivatives fair value fv + 100 bp change in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 32,134.1 $ 29,719.2 $ (2,414.9) mortgage loans 1,224.4 1,158.6 (65.8) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 255.4 242.4 (13.0) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and other (2) $ 809.8 $ 1,921.9 $ 1,112.1 short-term debt (188.9) (188.5) 0.4 long-term debt (1,677.4) (1,614.4) 63.0 derivatives (1) swaps $ 2,265.8 $ 242.2 $ 156.2 $ (86.0) forwards 266.3 60.2 65.0 4.8 embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (360.5) (330.3) 30.2 (1) these assets and liabilities are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates may affect the fair value at which the item is reported in our consolidated balance sheets with a corresponding offsetting change reported in other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes. (2) the adjustment to reserves and other for unrealized investment gains and losses reflects the adjustments to deferred acquisition costs and policyholder liabilities that would be necessary if the unrealized investment gains and losses related to the fixed maturity securities and derivatives had been realized. changes in this adjustment are also reported as a component of other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities was estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values shown in the chart above for all other items were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. foreign currency risk the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. we are exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in the british pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rates primarily as they relate to the translation of the financial results of our u.k. operations. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results. we do not hedge against the possible impact of this risk. because we do not actually convert pounds into dollars except for a limited number of transactions, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. assuming the pound to dollar exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2009 and 2008 levels, stockholders equity as reported in u.s. dollars as of and for the periods then ended would have been lower by approximately $98.6 million and $72.8 million, respectively. assuming the pound to dollar average exchange rate 98 table of contents decreased 10 percent from the actual average exchange rates for 2009 and 2008, segment operating income, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses and income tax, as reported in u.s. dollars would have decreased approximately $27.1 million and $33.5 million, respectively, for the years then ended. dividends paid by unum limited are generally held at our u.k. finance subsidiary. if these funds are repatriated to our u.s. holding company, we would at that time be subject to foreign currency risk as the value of the dividend, when converted into u.s. dollars, would be dependent upon the foreign exchange rate at the time of conversion. we are also exposed to foreign currency risk related to certain foreign investment securities denominated in local currencies and u.s. dollar-denominated debt issued by one of our u.k. subsidiaries. we use current and forward currency swaps and currency forward contracts to hedge or minimize the foreign exchange risk associated with these instruments. see unum uk segment contained herein in item 7 for further information concerning foreign currency translation. risk management as an insurer, we are in the business of risk management. effectively taking and managing risks is essential to the success of our company. to facilitate this effort, we have an enterprise risk management (erm) program. our erm program strives to: identify, measure, mitigate, and report on our risk positions and exposures, including notable risk events; assess material risks, including how they affect us, how individual risks interrelate, and how management addresses these risks; practice strong risk management, including diversification across and within business units and systematic limit monitoring; identify emerging risks and analyze how material future risks might affect us; and fulfill regulatory, rating agency, and governance objectives. through adherence to these objectives, we believe we are better positioned to fulfill our corporate mission, improve and protect stockholder value, and reduce reputational risk. our approach to risk management is defined by these fundamental principles: our risk management strategy begins with our business strategy. we are a specialty insurance carrier focused on providing benefits through employer-sponsored plans. we have market leadership positions in the product lines we offer and more than 160 years of experience. this combination of focused expertise and deep experience is the foundation of our approach to risk management. risk management cannot be successful in a vacuum; it needs to be embedded in daily decision-making throughout the organization. unum group board members and our senior leaders clearly acknowledge that risk management is critical to our company long-term success, and this theme cascades through the work of risk committees and the management team. additionally, we believe the individual and collective decisions of our employees play a key role in successfully managing our overall risk profile. we closely monitor emerging risks, adjust our strategies as appropriate, and hold capital levels which provide financial flexibility. we use qualitative and quantitative approaches to identify emerging risks and develop mitigating strategies to limit our exposure to existing and potential risks. we utilize stress testing and scenario analysis to shape our business, financial, and strategic planning activities. for example, stress testing of our capital and liquidity management strategies enables us to identify areas of high exposure, assess mitigating actions, develop contingency plans, and guide decisions around our capital and liquidity 99 table of contents levels. in addition, scenario analysis is used as input in the development of our business and strategic planning processes. risk committee structure and role we have a pyramid risk committee structure in place to govern our erm process. unum group board of directors has broad responsibility for risk management, with the audit committee having principal oversight of the risk management program. our chief risk officer regularly reports to the audit committee and also to the full board of directors, as appropriate. an executive risk management committee is responsible for overseeing our enterprise-wide risk management program. the chief risk officer, who is a member of the executive risk management committee, has primary responsibility for our erm program and is supported by a corporate risk committee and by the risk committees of the three primary operating segments that comprise unum group. operating segment risk committees for unum us, unum uk, and colonial life oversee risk specific to their business. these committees are responsible for identifying, measuring, reporting, and managing insurance and operational risks within their respective areas, consistent with corporate guidance. the corporate risk committee oversees the operational, investment, and capital management subcommittees and reviews risk on a corporate level. market and credit risk are jointly managed by the investment committee. the capital management committee is responsible for monitoring and planning capital allocation, financing, and liquidity. in addition to the formal communication channels included in the risk committee structure, we provide ways for employees to report risk directly to the chief risk officer, and we educate employees on company risks. governance, risk, and compliance we employ a decentralized risk management model under which risk-based decisions are made daily on a local level. to achieve long-term success, we believe risk management must be the responsibility of all employees. we strive for a culture of accountability, risk management, and strict compliance, and we believe these values allow our employees to feel comfortable identifying issues as well as taking ownership for addressing potential problems. the recent recession and financial sector problems have reinforced the importance of effective governance, risk management, and compliance. we rely on four complementary functions. internal controls provide reasonable assurance that there are controls in place to prevent and detect a material misstatement in our financial reporting; internal audits assess the effectiveness of controls for operational business processes and monitor compliance with internal policies and procedures; our compliance organization seeks to ensure compliance with laws and regulations and is responsible for directing our ethics program and privacy efforts; and the erm program serves as an umbrella and takes a holistic view of risks and risk management efforts across the enterprise. these groups work closely together to align their plans, activities, and efforts toward the common goal of effective governance, risk, and compliance. 100 table of contentsregulation general our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and oversight by insurance departments in jurisdictions in which they do business and by the u.s. department of labor (dol) on a national basis, primarily for the protection of policyholders. unum limited is subject to regulation by the financial services authority (fsa) in the u.k. the state insurance departments in the u.s. and the fsa in the u.k. have broad administrative powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business and, in particular, monitor the manner in which an insurance company offers, sells, and administers its products. this monitoring may include reviewing sales practices, including the content and use of advertising materials and the licensing and appointing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, and customer service practices. the dol enforces a comprehensive federal statute which regulates claims paying fiduciary responsibilities and reporting and disclosure requirements for most employee benefit plans. our domestic insurance subsidiaries must meet the standards and tests for investments imposed by state insurance laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled. domestic insurance subsidiaries operate under insurance laws which require they establish and carry, as liabilities, statutory reserves to meet policyholder obligations. these reserves are verified periodically by various regulators. our domestic insurance subsidiaries are examined periodically by examiners from their states of domicile and by other states in which they are licensed to conduct business. the domestic examinations have traditionally emphasized financial matters from the perspective of protection of policyholders, but they can and have covered other subjects that an examining state may be interested in reviewing, such as market conduct issues. other states more typically perform market conduct examinations that include a review of a company sales practices, including advertising and licensing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, and customer service practices to determine compliance with state laws. 12 table of contents index to financial statements capital requirements risk-based capital (rbc) standards for u.s. life insurance companies have been prescribed by the national association of insurance commissioners (naic). the domiciliary states of our u.s. insurance subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the rbc model formula of the naic, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers. the basis of the system is a risk-based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. the life and health rbc formula is designed to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks. the formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. the formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers generally. the naic solvency modernization initiative (smi) began in june 2008. the smi is a self-examination of the united states insurance solvency regulation framework and includes a review of international developments regarding insurance supervision, banking supervision, and international accounting standards and their potential use in u.s. insurance regulation. the smi is a wide-ranging initiative that, by its nature, will evolve to respond to national and international insurance regulatory and solvency developments. current smi goals and the principles developed through the smi exploration of capital requirements, group solvency, reinsurance, and international accounting will likely result in significant changes to u.s. insurance regulation and solvency standards. unum limited is subject to regulation, including capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, by the fsa in the u.k. current solvency standards require an insurance company to hold capital equal to the greater of (i) a formulaic calculation of capital related to liabilities or (ii) a risk-based assessment of capital which is company specific reflecting the insurance company individual risk profile. unum limited will adopt new capital requirements and risk management standards, solvency ii, resulting from a fundamental review of the capital adequacy standards for the european insurance industry. solvency ii will replace the current capital requirements for unum limited. solvency ii requirements are still being developed and have not yet been adopted, but the current proposals contain new requirements on capital adequacy and risk management for insurers, including (i) requirements to demonstrate adequate financial resources, including quantitative requirements, technical provisions, and calculation of solvency ii capital requirements through either an approved full or partial internal model or the european standard formula approach, (ii) requirements to demonstrate an adequate system of governance, including effective risk management and prospective risk identification, and (iii) disclosure and regulatory reporting requirements. the effective adoption date is expected to be january 1, 2013. our bermuda-based insurance subsidiary is subject to regulation by the bermuda monetary authority (bma). last year the bma initiated a comprehensive review of its insurance regulatory and solvency framework. throughout 2010, the bma published and released a series of consultation papers with the stated purpose of being recognized as equivalent under the solvency ii directive. the bma is working with european regulators and hopes to complete the assessment during the summer of 2011. the scope and scale of its proposed change is potentially broad, and requirements are expected to vary by insurer licensing classification. it is too early to assess the impact, but the insurance industry may ultimately be subject to new rules regarding governance, administrative and accounting processes, and/or long-term capital requirements. see further discussion in risk factors contained herein in item 1a and liquidity and capital resources contained herein in item 7. 13 table of contents index to financial statements insurance holding company regulation we are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), which currently include maine, massachusetts, tennessee, south carolina, new york, vermont, and california. these laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including intercompany transactions. in addition, the laws of most states, including the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurance company or its holding company. where these laws apply to us, there can be no effective change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement containing specified information with the appropriate insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval of the proposed change. the usual measure for a presumptive change of control pursuant to these laws is the acquisition of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company, although this presumption is rebuttable. consequently, a person acquiring 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company without the prior approval of the insurance regulators in the state(s) of domicile of the insurance company(ies) sought to be acquired (or whose holding company is sought to be acquired) will be in violation of these laws. such a person may also be subject to one or more of the following actions: (i) injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the applicable insurance regulators; (ii) prohibition of voting of such shares; and (iii) other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulators. further, many states insurance laws require that prior notification be given to state insurance regulators of a change in control of a non-domiciled insurance company doing business in the state. these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance regulators to disapprove the change in control; however, they do authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist, such as undue market concentration. any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of our company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-notification laws. these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. in addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries. see further discussion in risk factors contained herein in item 1a and liquidity and capital resources cash available from subsidiaries contained herein in item 7. we are also subject to regulation under applicable regulations and reporting requirements in the foreign jurisdictions in which we or our affiliates do business or have done business. federal laws and regulations the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank), which effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the united states, will subject us to potentially significant additional federal regulation. dodd-frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process anticipated to occur over the next few years. among other provisions impacting or potentially impacting us, dodd-frank: creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets, including requiring that certain swaps be executed through a centralized exchange or regulated facility and be cleared through a regulated clearinghouse and subjecting major swap participants (potentially including our company) to capital and margin (i.e., collateral) requirements, which may have the effect of increasing the costs of hedging generally and the credit risk posed by some counterparties; 14 table of contents index to financial statements establishes a financial stability oversight council with authority to subject systemically important financial companies (including nonbank financial companies such as our company) to supervision and stricter prudential regulation by the board of governors of the federal reserve board, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, and credit exposure, and in certain circumstances limitations on acquisitions or combinations, restrictions on product offerings, and/or requirements to sell assets; and establishes a federal insurance office within the department of the treasury to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry (other than with respect to health insurance, certain long-term care insurance, and crop insurance), including identifying issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or the u.s. financial system and recommending insurers (potentially including our company) that should be designated for stricter regulation. the usa patriot act of 2001 (patriot act) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. the patriot act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. anti-money laundering laws outside of the united states contain some similar provisions. the increased obligations of financial institutions to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, require the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls. for further discussion of regulation, refer to risk factors contained herein in item 1a. geographic areas segment operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our u.k. operations totaled $845.8 million, $828.2 million, and $1,086.1 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. these amounts were approximately 8.3 percent, 8.2 percent, and 10.4 percent of consolidated segment operating revenue for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. as of december 31, 2010, total assets and liabilities for our u.k. operations were $3.6 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, or approximately 6.3 percent and 5.2 percent of consolidated assets and liabilities, respectively. fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency of our u.k. operations will impact our reported operating results. see risk factors contained herein in item 1a for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of unum uk operating results. employees at december 31, 2010, we had approximately 9,500 full-time employees. available information our internet website address is www.unum.com . we make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. 15 table of contents index to financial statements executive officers of the registrant our executive officers, all of whom are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by unum group board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. name age position thomas r. watjen 56 president and chief executive officer and a director robert o. best 61 executive vice president, global business technology liston bishop iii 64 executive vice president and general counsel randall c. horn 58 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life kevin p. mccarthy 55 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us john f. mcgarry richard p. mckenney 53 42 executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk executive vice president and chief financial officer mr. watjen became president and chief executive officer in march 2003. he served as vice chairman and chief operating officer from may 2002 until march 2003. he became executive vice president, finance in june 1999 and assumed the additional risk management responsibilities in november 1999. mr. watjen originally joined a unum group predecessor company as executive vice president and chief financial officer in 1994. mr. best was named executive vice president, global business technology in march 2010. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, chief operating officer, unum us from january 2007 and executive vice president, service operations and chief information officer from january 2006 to january 2007. he served as executive vice president, the client services center, and chief information officer from may 2003. mr. best originally joined a unum group predecessor company as senior vice president and chief information officer in 1994. mr. bishop became executive vice president and general counsel in october 2008. prior to this appointment, he officially began serving as interim general counsel in april 2008. from august 1979 through september 2008, mr. bishop practiced corporate and securities law with the law firm of miller &amp; martin pllc, except during the period from january 2005 through july 2007 when he was employed as deputy general counsel and corporate secretary of coca-cola enterprises inc. mr. horn was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, colonial life in may 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer of colonial life &amp; accident insurance company from march 2004. before joining the company, he served as executive vice president of mutual of omaha insurance company from 1993 until 2003, having joined that company in 1981. mr. mccarthy was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum us in may 2007. he previously served as executive vice president, president, unum us from january 2007. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, risk operations from january 2006. he previously served as executive vice president, underwriting from may 2003. mr. mccarthy originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1976. mr. mcgarry was named executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, unum uk in july 2010. he previously served as senior vice president, benefits, individual disability, and national client group business, for unum us from january 2010. prior to that, he served in various other capacities within unum us, including senior vice president, benefits operations and risk management from march 2008 to january 2010, senior vice president, benefits operations from january 2006 to march 2008, and senior vice president, underwriting operations from august 2005 to january 2006. mr. mcgarry originally joined a unum group predecessor company in 1986. 16 table of contents index to financial statements mr. mckenney was named executive vice president and chief financial officer in august 2009, having joined the company in july 2009. before joining the company, mr. mckenney served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of sun life financial inc., an international financial services company, since february 2007, having joined that company as executive vice president in september 2006. he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of genworth financial, inc., a global financial security company, from may 2004 until august 2006. item 1a. risk factors we face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. discussed below are certain factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases. the risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. see cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements contained herein on page 1. unfavorable economic conditions may result in lower premium growth, higher disability claims incidence, or longer claims duration. as a large financial institution, we are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, both in the united states and in the united kingdom. adversity in the capital markets and the general economy may adversely affect our business and results of operations. in particular, factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses. given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, new product sales may be adversely affected. our premium growth may also be negatively impacted by lower premium growth from existing customers due to lower salary growth and lower growth in the number of employees covered under an existing policy. in addition, during such periods we may experience higher disability claims incidence, longer disability claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses. we and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation, which may affect the cost or demand for our products, may increase capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, or may impact our profitability or growth. our insurance company subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. in addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. it is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are domiciled and operate. we cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. the naic or state regulators may adopt revisions to the rbc formula, the fsa may revise its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, other jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, including the bma, may increase their capital requirements, or rating agencies may incorporate higher capital thresholds into their quantitative analyses, thus requiring additional capital for our insurance subsidiaries. increased financial services regulation, such as the naic solvency modernization initiative and the european commission solvency ii, may impose greater quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and disclosure requirements and may impact the business strategies, capital requirements, and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. 17 table of contents index to financial statements new programs, including healthcare reform or financial services sector reform, may compete with or diminish the need for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace. congress, as well as foreign, state, and local governments, could enact legislation related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or could eliminate current tax deductions. any of these events could increase our tax costs or affect the desirability of our products to customers. legislative changes related to pension funding requirements could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and our profitability. the enactment of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act will subject us to potentially significant additional federal regulation. the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted could affect the financial markets generally and could impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, and the requirement, availability, or cost of capital. see regulation contained herein in item 1. most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by the employee retirement income security act (erisa). changes to erisa enacted by congress or via judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability. the insurance departments in jurisdictions wherein our insurance subsidiaries conduct business may limit our ability to obtain rate increases under guaranteed renewable contracts and may require changes in rates and/or benefits to meet minimum loss ratio requirements which could negatively impact the profitability of our products. many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. these regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in our claims handling practices, changes in business practices, including changes in broker compensation and related disclosure practices, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, fines, and other administrative action. such results, singly or in combination, may injure our reputation, cause negative publicity, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, or impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, thereby adversely affecting our business, and potentially materially adversely affecting the results of operations. determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. see regulation contained herein in item 1 and note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. sustained periods of low interest rates in the long-term investment market may adversely affect our reported net investment income and our ability to purchase securities at rates of return assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. an interest, or discount, rate is used in calculating our policyholder reserves. we set our reserve discount rate assumptions based on our current and expected future investment yield for assets supporting the reserves, considering current and expected future market conditions. continued low interest rates and yields on fixed income investments may cause the rates of return on our investment portfolio to decrease more than expected, leading to lower net investment income than assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products. if the discount rate assumed in our reserve calculations is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets will not earn enough investment income to support our future claim payments. in that case, the reserves may eventually be insufficient. 18 table of contents index to financial statements see reserves for policy and contract benefits contained herein in item 1 and critical accounting estimates included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. changes in the risk results of our segments or lines of businesses may materially adversely affect our results or operations or financial condition. in recent years, we have experienced improved risk results in various lines of business, with lower benefits and change in reserves for future benefits relative to premium income. these results may not be indicative of future performance due to, among other things, changes in our mix of business, re-pricing of certain lines of business, or any number of economic cyclical effects on our business. in addition, reserves, whether calculated under gaap or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures. actual claim experience may differ from our reserve assumptions. there can be no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods. adjustments to reserve amounts may be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors); persistency; mortality (improved life expectancies may require an increase in reserves for long-tailed products such as individual disability and long-term care); policy benefit offsets, including those for social security; and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts. see reserves for policy and contract benefits contained herein in item 1 and critical accounting estimates included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. in addition to interest rate risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. these risks include default risk, credit spread fluctuations, the contractual terms of derivative contracts, the accuracy of valuations of securities, and the possibility that we might need to sell securities at disadvantageous times. investments are an integral part of our business, and our investments support our policyholder liabilities and shareholders equity. our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. these securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, unforeseen accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations. our investment portfolio also includes perpetual debentures, or hybrid securities. interest on these securities due on any payment date may be deferred by the issuer. because interest payments are deferrable and because these securities rank behind traditional debt obligations, events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may have a greater adverse effect on these types of investments than on our traditional fixed maturity securities. our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk. events or developments, such as economic conditions that impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio. events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector. a default results in the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment loss on the investment. a default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us. the probability of credit downgrades and defaults increases when the fixed income markets experience periods of volatility and illiquidity. our exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads may increase 19 table of contents index to financial statements the net unrealized loss position of the investment portfolio. credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities. we use derivative instruments to help us manage interest rate risk. risks to our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity include: our hedges may become ineffective due to changes in expected future events for which we have hedged or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments. ineffectiveness of our hedges may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts. such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks. many of our counterparties are financial institutions, and capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance by financial institutions. non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind the hedge. we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged. under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral. this may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral. an increase in interest rates may result in losses at the time hedges are terminated, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute effective hedges due to the increased economic cost of hedges. we report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at market value. valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, particularly during periods of market disruption, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we evaluate our investment portfolio for impairments. there can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken. additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. any event reducing the value of our securities other than on a temporary basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. while we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, we may in certain circumstances need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. events such as these may force us to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. see critical accounting estimates included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and notes 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussion of our investments and derivatives. competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability. all of our businesses are highly competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are integrated product choices, price, quality of customer service and claims management, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. we compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability. the level and intensity of competition may grow due to existing competitors becoming more aggressive, new competitors entering the market, and an increase in merger and acquisition activity which may result 20 table of contents index to financial statements in larger competitors with greater financial resources. there are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies and new competitors in the future. see competition contained herein in item 1 for further discussion. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board (fasb), the international accounting standards board (iasb), the u.k. accounting standards board (asb), or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles in both the united states and the united kingdom, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the fasb and asb. the fasb has several ongoing projects regarding accounting standards that will likely be adopted in the near future. it is expected that the united kingdom will adopt international financial reporting standards (ifrs) issued by the iasb in the near future. it is possible that the united states may also adopt ifrs. future accounting standards we adopt will change current accounting and disclosure requirements applicable to our financial statements. such changes may have a material effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition. a decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, or financial condition. we compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. a downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. a downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to unum group or a negative outlook statement by a rating agency could have an effect on our ability to raise capital and on our cost of capital. see ratings contained herein in item 1 and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. there are many events which may harm our reputation. these events could include but are not limited to those discussed herein in item 1a regarding regulatory investigations concerning one or more aspects of broker compensation and related matters, as well as legal proceedings which have previously and may in the future result in court rulings and jury verdicts against us. our reliance on independent contractors and brokers to distribute many of our products exposes our reputation to the possibility of being damaged by sales practices over which we have no means of direct control. depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business. damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital or increase our cost of capital. see regulation contained herein in item 1 and note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for additional information on regulatory matters and legal proceedings. volatility in long-term interest rates or the rate of return on pension plan assets may have a negative effect on the funded status of our pension plans and/or increase our pension costs. the rate of return on pension plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period. declines in long-term interest rates or the fair value of our plan assets may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. conversely, a rise in interest rates could unfavorably impact the fair value of both the fixed income and equity investments in our pension plans. see critical accounting estimates included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussion. 21 table of contents index to financial statements our insurance products may be affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may materially affect our profitability. disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products. competition in disability insurance has also been markedly affected by the growth of social security, workers compensation, and other governmental programs in the workplace. both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence for disability insurance. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses. the relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates. however, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. in addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. the pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ between product classes. our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business due to changes resulting from economic, societal, or other factors. guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market. long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products. this creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves. long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval which can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all. we monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends. changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves. mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives long-term disability and long-term care benefits. due to the long duration of the product, we may be unable to purchase appropriate assets with cash flows and durations such that the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. sustained periods of low interest rates could result in lower than expected profitability or increases in reserves. in 2010, legislation related to healthcare reform was signed into law. among other things, the new legislation includes the community living assistance services and support act (class act) which creates a nationwide voluntary long-term services insurance program. details of the insurance program are still emerging, but the program is scheduled to begin taking effect in 2011, with enrollment expected to begin after benefits are set in late 2012. while we continue to monitor the impact of the class act on our company and the insurance industry as further details of the government program become available, it is possible that the program provided under the provisions of the class act may adversely affect the demand for and profitability of our long-term care products. group life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks and natural disasters, which may also affect the availability of reinsurance coverage. there are a series of lawsuits pending in federal courts challenging the use of retained asset accounts in group life plans that are governed by erisa. if these challenges are upheld by the courts, our ability to use such accounts for the beneficiaries of these plans may be adversely affected. 22 table of contents index to financial statements voluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics. our voluntary life insurance products generally include interest-sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate. it is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate. the non-life contracts are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products. an assessment by a governing tax authority may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws in a multitude of jurisdictions, both domestic and foreign. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect profitability. such an assessment may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred income tax asset. factors in our ability to realize a tax benefit from our deferred income tax asset include the performance of our businesses and our ability to generate realized investment gains. if we determine that all or a portion of the deferred income tax asset will not result in a future tax benefit, a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income or other comprehensive income. such charges may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the likelihood of recording such a valuation increases during periods of economic downturn. our overall risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. we have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, operations, capital and liquidity, and reputational risks. however, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for managing risk may not fully predict future exposures. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk contained herein in item 7a for further information about our risk management program. litigation is common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and/or harm to our reputation. unum group and/or its subsidiaries directors and officers have been sued in several lawsuits. the outcome of these lawsuits is uncertain. an estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. an adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings. unum group and its insurance subsidiaries, as part of their normal operations in managing claims, are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. for our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. we expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition. nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. 23 table of contents index to financial statements refer to note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings. united kingdom currency translation risk could materially impact reported operating results. the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our financial results. in periods when the pound weakens, translating pounds into dollars decreases current period results relative to the prior period. in periods when the pound strengthens, translating pounds into dollars increases current period results in relation to the prior period. however, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert pounds into dollars. as a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. we are subject to various operational risks resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or from external events which may damage our market position and reputation and/or adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we face challenges and risks associated with the development, sale, and retention of product offerings that meet the needs of our targeted markets; maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline; continued effective claim management and customer service performance; ongoing expense management; delivering effective technology solutions; continued execution of our capital management strategy; and the successful implementation of operational improvements and strategic growth initiatives. failure to successfully manage our operational risks may adversely affect our competitiveness, profitability, or financial condition. our ability to finance our ongoing operations may not always be possible solely from internal sources of capital and liquidity. if we need to seek external capital, there is the risk that adverse market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital or our cost of capital. a change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations. deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, and our business may suffer. if our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. if our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements. maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by state insurance regulations, is considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities and the rating agencies that rate insurers claims-paying abilities and financial strength. failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in item 1a may impose higher capital requirements on our insurance subsidiaries. need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary ability to distribute funds to the holding company and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our debt and other payment obligations. obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be complicated in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty. the markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. the availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock holding in unum group. 24 table of contents index to financial statements see liquidity and capital resources included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 for further discussion. our subsidiaries may be restricted from paying dividends to our holding companies. unum group and certain of its subsidiaries rely on dividends from our insurance and non-insurance company subsidiaries to make dividend payments on our common stock, meet debt payment obligations, and pay our other obligations. our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to affiliates. the level of statutory earnings and capital in our insurance subsidiaries could impact their ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to our holding companies, which could impair our ability to pay our dividends or meet our debt and other payment obligations. see liquidity and capital resources included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for a discussion of the existing regulatory limitations on dividends. reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue. the collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (dac), value of business acquired (voba), and goodwill. we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we defer certain costs incurred in acquiring new business and expense these costs over the life of the related policies. these costs include certain commissions, other agency compensation, selection and policy issue expenses, and field expenses. voba represents the present value of future profits recorded in connection with the acquisition of a block of insurance policies. dac and voba are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. recoverability testing for dac and voba is performed on an annual basis. insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. if recoverability testing indicates that either dac and/or voba are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. accounting standard updates which we will be required to adopt in our first quarter 2012 filing will result in a decrease to our existing dac asset if we choose retrospective application on adoption. see critical accounting estimates included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained herein in item 7 and note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8. goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors. in accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. in addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. 25 table of contents index to financial statements extreme events, including political instability or terrorism, can affect the economy in general, our industry, and us specifically. events such as epidemics, pandemics, political instability, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, or other extreme events may materially adversely affect our business, the level of claims, or our results of operations, and in the event of extreme circumstances, our financial condition or viability. beyond obtaining insurance coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events away from us. the continued threat of terrorism could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. in the event of nuclear or bioterrorism attacks, epidemics, or other extreme events, we could face significant costs depending on the government actions and the responsiveness of public agencies and other insurers. in addition, we may also be adversely affected if we do not maintain adequate procedures to ensure disaster recovery and business continuity for our facilities and operations in the event of such occurrences. we also face other risks that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition, including but not limited to: a significant deficiency in our internal controls over financial reporting; any requirement to restate financial results due to inappropriate application of accounting principles; risks associated with security or interruption of information systems, which could cause, among other things, operational disruption and reputational harm; a guaranty fund assessment by a governing regulatory body to cover the proportional cost of an insolvent or failed insurer; failure to adequately plan for succession of our senior management and other key executives; and failure of our processes to prevent and detect fraud and/or unethical conduct of employees. 26 table of contents index to financial statements quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to various market risk exposures, including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. the following discussion regarding our risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). caution should be used in evaluating our overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. see investments contained herein in item 7 and notes 2, 3, and 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained herein in item 8 for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate changes results from our holdings of financial instruments such as fixed rate investments, derivatives, and interest-sensitive liabilities. fixed rate investments include fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, and short-term investments. fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and redeemable preferred stock, all of which are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations. certain of our financial instruments, fixed maturity securities and derivatives, are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of these financial instruments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. a rise in interest rates may increase the net unrealized loss related to these financial instruments, but may improve our ability to earn higher rates of return on new purchases of fixed maturity securities. conversely, a decline in interest rates may decrease the net unrealized loss, but new securities may be purchased at lower rates of return. although changes in fair value of fixed maturity securities and derivatives due to changes in interest rates may impact amounts reported in our consolidated balance sheets, these changes will not cause an economic gain or loss unless we sell investments, terminate derivative positions, determine that an investment is other than temporarily impaired, or determine that a derivative instrument is no longer an effective hedge. other fixed rate investments, such as mortgage loans and policy loans, are carried at amortized cost and unpaid balances, respectively, rather than fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. these investments may have fair values substantially higher or lower than the carrying values reflected in our balance sheets. a change in interest rates could impact our financial position if we sold our mortgage loan investments at times of low market value. a change in interest rates would not impact our financial position at repayment of policy loans, as ultimately the cash surrender values or death benefits would be reduced for the carrying value of any outstanding policy loans. carrying amounts for short-term investments approximate fair value, and we believe we have minimal interest rate risk exposure from these investments. we believe that the risk of being forced to liquidate investments or terminate derivative positions is minimal, primarily due to the level of capital at our insurance subsidiaries, the level of cash and marketable securities at our holding companies, and our investment strategy which we believe provides for adequate cash flows to meet the funding requirements of our business. we may in certain circumstances, however, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. although the majority of our liabilities related to insurance contracts are not interest rate sensitive and we therefore have minimal exposure to policy withdrawal risk, the fair values of liabilities under all insurance contracts are taken into consideration in our overall management of interest rate risk, which minimizes exposure to changing interest rates through the matching of investment cash flows with amounts due under insurance contracts. changes in interest rates and individuals behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. we actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to mitigate interest rate risk. due to the long duration of the our long-term care product, we may be unable to purchase appropriate assets with cash flows and durations such that the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities. sustained periods of low interest rates could result in lower than expected profitability or increases in reserves. we model and test asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios allows us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to prepare for disadvantageous 95 table of contents index to financial statements outcomes. this analysis is the precursor to our activities in derivative financial instruments. we use current and forward interest rate swaps, options on forward interest rate swaps, and forward treasury locks to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. short-term and long-term debt are not carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. if we modify or replace existing short-term or long-term debt instruments at current market rates, we may incur a gain or loss on the transaction. we believe our debt-related risk to changes in interest rates is relatively minimal. in the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need. we measure our financial instruments market risk related to changes in interest rates using a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates potential changes in fair values as of december 31, 2010 and 2009 based on a hypothetical immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels. the selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. the hypothetical potential changes in fair value of our financial instruments at december 31, 2010 and 2009 are shown as follows: december 31, 2010 notional hypothetical amount of fair fv + 100 change (in millions of dollars) derivatives value bp in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 40,035.6 $ 36,576.1 $ (3,459.5) mortgage loans 1,685.4 1,609.5 (75.9) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 253.9 239.9 (14.0) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and other (2) $ (2,993.6) $ (631.6) $ 2,362.0 short-term debt (226.8) (226.4) 0.4 long-term debt (2,483.8) (2,358.3) 125.5 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,681.9 $ (100.5) $ (190.6) $ (90.1) embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (96.3) (105.4) (9.1) 96 table of contents index to financial statements december 31, 2009 notional hypothetical amount of fair fv + 100 change (in millions of dollars) derivatives value bp in fv assets fixed maturity securities (1) $ 37,914.4 $ 34,930.8 $ (2,983.6) mortgage loans 1,402.5 1,336.4 (66.1) policy loans, net of reinsurance ceded 232.0 219.9 (12.1) liabilities unrealized adjustment to reserves, net of reinsurance ceded and other (2) $ (1,541.7) $ 113.3 $ 1,655.0 long-term debt (2,296.0) (2,204.1) 91.9 derivatives (1) swaps $ 1,615.9 $ (63.1) $ (87.9) $ (24.8) forwards 4.8 (0.4) (0.2) 0.2 embedded derivative in modified coinsurance arrangement (117.4) (121.5) (4.1) (1) these assets and liabilities are carried at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates may affect the fair value at which the item is reported in our consolidated balance sheets with a corresponding offsetting change reported in other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes. (2) the adjustment to reserves and other for unrealized investment gains and losses reflects the adjustments to deferred acquisition costs and policyholder liabilities that would be necessary if the unrealized investment gains and losses related to the fixed maturity securities and derivatives had been realized. changes in this adjustment are also reported as a component of other comprehensive income or loss, net of deferred taxes. the effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a duration implied methodology for corporate bonds and government and government agency securities whereby the duration of each security was used to estimate the change in price for the security assuming an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates. the effect of a change in interest rates on the mortgage-backed securities was estimated using a mortgage analytic system which takes into account the impact of changing prepayment speeds resulting from a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the change in price of the mortgage-backed securities. these hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. the changes in the fair values shown in the chart above for all other items were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. foreign currency risk the functional currency of our u.k. operations is the british pound sterling. we are exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in the british pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rates primarily as they relate to the translation of the financial results of our u.k. operations. fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results. we do not hedge against the possible impact of this risk. because we do not actually convert pounds into dollars except for a limited number of transactions, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the u.k. assuming the pound to dollar exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the december 31, 2010 and 2009 levels, stockholders equity as reported in u.s. dollars as of and for the periods then ended would have been lower by 97 table of contents index to financial statements approximately $106.0 million and $98.6 million, respectively. assuming the pound to dollar average exchange rate decreased 10 percent from the actual average exchange rates for 2010 and 2009, segment operating income, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses and income tax, as reported in u.s. dollars would have decreased approximately $22.5 million and $27.1 million, respectively, for the years then ended. dividends paid by unum limited are generally held at our u.k. finance subsidiary. if these funds are repatriated to our u.s. holding company, we would at that time be subject to foreign currency risk as the value of the dividend, when converted into u.s. dollars, would be dependent upon the foreign exchange rate at the time of conversion. we are also exposed to foreign currency risk related to certain foreign investment securities denominated in local currencies and u.s. dollar-denominated debt issued by one of our u.k. subsidiaries. we use current and forward currency swaps and currency forward contracts to hedge or minimize the foreign exchange risk associated with these instruments. see unum uk segment contained herein in item 7 for further information concerning foreign currency translation. risk management as an insurer, we are in the business of risk management. effectively taking and managing risks is essential to the success of our company. to facilitate this effort, we have an enterprise risk management (erm) program. our erm program strives to: identify, measure, mitigate, and report on our risk positions and exposures, including notable risk events; assess material risks, including how they affect us, how individual risks interrelate, and how management addresses these risks; practice strong risk management, including diversification across and within business units and systematic limit monitoring; identify emerging risks and analyze how material future risks might affect us; fulfill regulatory, rating agency, and governance objectives; and maintain our risk appetite policy and report against its tolerance and limits. through adherence to these objectives, we believe we are better positioned to fulfill our corporate mission, improve and protect stockholder value, and reduce reputational risk. our approach to risk management is defined by these fundamental principles: our risk management strategy begins with our business strategy. we are a specialty insurance carrier focused on providing benefits through employer-sponsored plans. we have market leadership positions in the product lines we offer and more than 160 years of experience. this combination of focused expertise and deep experience is the foundation of our approach to risk management. risk management cannot be successful in a vacuum; it needs to be embedded in daily decision-making throughout the organization. unum group board members and our senior leaders clearly acknowledge that risk management is critical to our company long-term success, and this theme cascades through the work of risk committees and the management team. additionally, we believe the individual and collective decisions of our employees play a key role in successfully managing our overall risk profile. we closely monitor emerging risks, adjust our strategies as appropriate, and hold capital levels which provide financial flexibility. we use qualitative and quantitative approaches to identify emerging risks and develop mitigating strategies to limit our exposure to existing and potential risks. we utilize stress testing and scenario analysis to shape our business, financial, and strategic planning activities. for example, stress testing of our capital and liquidity management strategies enables us to identify areas of high exposure, assess mitigating actions, develop contingency plans, and guide decisions around our capital and liquidity levels. in addition, scenario analysis is used as input in the development of our business and strategic planning processes. 98 table of contents index to financial statements risk committee structure and role we have a pyramid risk committee structure in place to govern our erm process. unum group board of directors has an active role, as a whole and also at the committee level, in overseeing management of our risks. the board is responsible for managing strategic risk and regularly reviews information regarding our capital, liquidity, and operations, as well as the risks associated with each, and receives an enterprise risk management report from our chief risk officer at least annually, and usually more frequently. the audit committee is responsible for oversight of our risk management process, financial risk, operational risk, and any other risk not specifically assigned to another committee. the chief risk officer provides a report on our risk and risk management to the audit committee at least quarterly. the finance committee is responsible for oversight of risks associated with investments and related financial matters. the human capital committee is responsible for overseeing the management of risks relating to our compensation plans and programs; in connection with this oversight it receives an analysis from the chief risk officer with respect to these risks. the regulatory compliance committee oversees management of risks related to regulatory, compliance, policy, and legal matters, both current and emerging and whether of a local, state, federal, or international nature. while each committee is responsible for evaluating certain risks and overseeing the management of such risks, the entire board of directors is regularly informed through committee reports about such risks in addition to the risk information it receives directly. an executive risk management committee is responsible for overseeing our enterprise-wide risk management program. the chief risk officer, who is a member of the executive risk management committee, has primary responsibility for our erm program and is supported by a corporate risk committee and by the risk committees of the three primary operating segments that comprise unum group. operating segment risk committees for unum us, unum uk, and colonial life oversee risk specific to their business. these committees are responsible for identifying, measuring, reporting, and managing insurance and operational risks within their respective areas, consistent with corporate guidance. the corporate risk committee oversees the operational, investment, and capital management subcommittees and reviews risk on a corporate level. market and credit risk are jointly managed by the investment committee and the asset liability committee. the capital management committee is responsible for monitoring and planning capital allocation, financing, and liquidity. in addition to the formal communication channels included in the risk committee structure, we provide ways for employees to report risk directly to the chief risk officer, and we educate employees on company risks. governance, risk, and compliance we employ a decentralized risk management model under which risk-based decisions are made daily on a local level. to achieve long-term success, we believe risk management must be the responsibility of all employees. we strive for a culture of accountability, risk management, and strict compliance, and we believe these values allow our employees to feel comfortable identifying issues as well as taking ownership for addressing potential problems. the recent recession and financial sector problems have reinforced the importance of effective governance, risk management, and compliance. we rely on four complementary functions. internal controls provide reasonable assurance that there are controls in place to prevent and detect a material misstatement in our financial reporting; internal audits assess the effectiveness of controls for operational business processes and monitor compliance with internal policies and procedures; our compliance organization seeks to ensure compliance with laws and regulations and is responsible for directing our ethics program and privacy efforts; and the erm program serves as an umbrella and takes a holistic view of risks and risk management efforts across the enterprise. these groups work closely together to align their plans, activities, and efforts toward the common goal of effective governance, risk, and compliance. 99 table of contents index to financial statements