risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees are subject to significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenues, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. interchange represents a transfer of value between the financial institutions participating in an open-loop payments network such as ours. on purchase transactions, interchange fees are typically paid to issuers, which are the financial institutions that issue visa cards to cardholders, by acquirers, which are the financial institutions that offer visa network connectivity and payments acceptance services to merchants, in connection with transactions initiated with cards in our payments system. we set default interchange rates in the united states and other regions. in certain jurisdictions, interchange rates are subject to government regulation. although we administer the collection and remittance of interchange fees through the settlement process, we generally do not receive any portion of the interchange fees. interchange fees are often the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. we believe that interchange fees are an important driver of system volume. as the volume of card-based payments has increased in recent years, interchange fees, including our default interchange rates, have become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny worldwide. we believe that regulators are increasingly adopting a similar approach to interchange fees, and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulatory approaches in other jurisdictions. 28 table of contents interchange fees have been the topic of recent committee hearings in the u.s. house of representatives and the u.s. senate, as well as conferences held by a number of u.s. federal reserve banks. in addition, the u.s. house of representatives has passed a bill that would commission a study by the federal trade commission of the role of interchange fees in alleged price gouging at gas stations. individual state legislatures in the united states are also reviewing interchange fees, and legislators in a number of states have proposed bills that purport to limit interchange fees or merchant discount rates or to prohibit their application to portions of a transaction. in addition, the merchants payments coalition, a coalition of trade associations representing businesses that accept credit and debit cards, is mounting a challenge to interchange fees in the united states by seeking legislative and regulatory intervention. interchange fees and related practices also have been or are being reviewed by regulatory authorities and/or central banks in a number of other jurisdictions, including the european union, australia, brazil, colombia, germany, honduras, hungary, mexico, new zealand, norway, poland, portugal, romania, singapore, south africa, spain, sweden, switzerland and the united kingdom. for example: the reserve bank of australia has made regulations under legislation enacted to give it powers over payments systems. a regulation controls the costs that can be considered in setting interchange fees for visa credit and debit cards, but does not regulate the merchant discount charged by any payment system, including competing closed-loop payments systems. new zealand competition regulator, the commerce commission, filed a civil claim alleging that, among other things, the fixing of default interchange rates by cards nz limited, visa international, mastercard and certain visa international member financial institutions contravenes the new zealand commerce act. a group of new zealand retailers filed a nearly identical claim against the same parties before the same tribunal. both the commerce commission and the retailers seek declaratory, injunctive and monetary relief. in march 2006, banco de m&eacute;xico, the central bank of mexico, reached an agreement with the mexican banks association to implement a new, value-based interchange methodology. as part of banco de m&eacute;xico transparency policies, details of the new interchange rates have been publicly disclosed and are available on banco de m&eacute;xico web site. in december 2007, the european commission adopted a decision that mastercard multilateral interchange fees for cross-border payment transactions within the european economic area violated european community treaty rules on restrictive business practices and must be withdrawn within six months. regulatory actions such as these, even if not directed at us or if affecting a geographic region in which we do not operate, may nonetheless increase regulatory scrutiny of interchange fees. if we cannot successfully defend our ability to set default interchange rates to maximize system volume, our payments system may become unattractive to issuers and/or acquirers. this result could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our open-loop multi-party payments system, lower overall transaction volumes and/or make closed-loop payments systems or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could also begin to charge higher fees to consumers, thereby making our card programs less desirable and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability. acquirers could elect to charge higher merchant discount rates to merchants, regardless of the level of visa interchange, leading merchants not to accept cards for payment or to steer visa cardholders to alternate payment systems. in addition, issuers or acquirers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card programs by seeking incentives from us or a reduction in the fees that we charge. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. a finding of liability in the interchange litigation may result in substantial damages. since 2005, approximately 50 class action and individual complaints have been filed on behalf of merchants against visa u.s.a., visa international, mastercard and other defendants, including certain visa u.s.a. member financial institutions, which we refer to as the interchange litigation. among other antitrust allegations, the 29 table of contents plaintiffs allege that visa u.s.a. and visa international setting of default interchange rates violated federal and state antitrust laws. the lawsuits have been transferred to a multidistrict litigation in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of new york. the class action complaints have been consolidated into a single amended class action complaint and the individual complaints are also being consolidated in the same multidistrict litigation. a similar case, filed in 2004, is on appeal by plaintiffs after having been dismissed with prejudice, and has not been transferred to the multidistrict litigation. the plaintiffs in the interchange litigation seek damages for alleged overcharges in merchant discount fees, as well as injunctive and other relief. the plaintiffs have not yet quantified the damages they seek, although several of the complaints allege that the plaintiffs expect that damages will range in the tens of billions of dollars. because these lawsuits were brought under the u.s. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages will be trebled and visa u.s.a. and/or visa international may be subject to joint and several liability among the defendants if liability is established, which could significantly magnify the effect of any adverse judgment. the interchange litigation is part of the covered litigation, which our retrospective responsibility plan is intended to address; however, the retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements of, or judgments in, the interchange litigation. failure to successfully defend or settle the interchange litigation would result in liability that to the extent not covered by our retrospective responsibility plan could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. in addition, even if our direct financial exposure were covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, settlements or judgments involving the multidistrict litigation could include restrictions on our ability to conduct business, which could increase our cost of doing business and limit our prospects for future growth. see item 3 legal proceedings retrospective responsibility plan covered litigation the interchange litigation . a finding of liability in the discover litigation may result in substantial damages. in 1998, the u.s. department of justice filed suit against visa u.s.a., visa international and mastercard international in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york. the suit alleged, among other things, that visa u.s.a. restrained competition by prohibiting its member financial institutions from issuing certain payment cards that compete with visa-branded cards (such as american express or discover), which we refer to as competing payment cards. the district court held that the prohibition constituted an unlawful restraint of trade under the u.s. federal antitrust laws, and this decision was affirmed by the second circuit court of appeals. in 2004, the u.s. supreme court denied our petition for certiorari, thereby exhausting all avenues for further appeal in this case. as a result of this judgment, the visa u.s.a. bylaw that provided for the prohibition became unenforceable in october 2004 and was subsequently repealed. discover filed suit against visa u.s.a., visa international and mastercard international, alleging that prohibiting member financial institutions from issuing competing payment cards caused it injury under the u.s. federal antitrust laws. discover has requested that the district court give collateral estoppel effect to the court findings in the judgment of the 1998 department of justice litigation. although the district court denied that request when made at the outset of the litigation, the district court indicated it would entertain a motion by discover for collateral estoppel at a later time. if the court were to give collateral estoppel effect to one or more issues, significant elements of discover claims would be established, making it more likely that visa u.s.a. and visa international could be found liable and that discover would be awarded damages. even if the court declines to give collateral estoppel effect to any of these issues, discover may nevertheless be successful in establishing these issues in subsequent proceedings. on july 24, 2007, discover served an expert report purporting to demonstrate that it had incurred substantial damages. because this lawsuit was brought under the u.s. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages will be trebled and visa u.s.a. and visa international may be subject to joint and several liability among the defendants if liability is established, which could significantly magnify the effect of any adverse judgment. 30 table of contents american express filed a suit similar to the discover litigation against visa u.s.a., visa international and certain visa u.s.a. member financial institutions. the american express lawsuit is part of the covered litigation, which our retrospective responsibility plan is intended to address. we, visa u.s.a. and visa international entered into a settlement agreement with american express that became effective on november 9, 2007. the settlement agreement in the american express litigation will be funded through our retrospective responsibility plan. the discover lawsuit is also part of the covered litigation. the retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impacts of settlements of, or judgments in, the discover lawsuit. failure to successfully defend against or settle these lawsuits would result in liability that to the extent not covered by our retrospective responsibility plan could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. see item 3 legal proceedings retrospective responsibility plan covered litigation . our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements and judgments in the covered litigation and will not insulate us from other pending or future litigation. our retrospective responsibility plan is intended to address monetary liabilities from settlements of, or final judgments in, the litigation described under item 3 legal proceedings retrospective responsibility plan covered litigation . the retrospective responsibility plan consists of several related mechanisms to fund settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation, including an escrow account funded with a portion of the net proceeds of our proposed initial public offering and potential follow-on offerings of our common stock, a loss sharing agreement, a judgment sharing agreement and the indemnification obligation of visa u.s.a. members pursuant to visa u.s.a. certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in accordance with their membership agreements. these mechanisms are unique and complex. if we are prevented from using one or more of these mechanisms under our retrospective responsibility plan, we could have difficulty funding the payment of a settlement or final judgment against us in a covered litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. the retrospective responsibility plan does not address litigation other than the covered litigation that we currently face, including state court litigation relating to interchange, and will not cover litigation that we may face in the future, except for cases that include claims for damages relating to the period prior to our proposed initial public offering that are transferred for pre-trial proceedings or otherwise included in the interchange litigation. in addition, our retrospective responsibility plan is designed to cover only the potential monetary liability from settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation. settlements and judgments in covered litigation may require us to modify the way we do business in the future, which could adversely affect our revenues, increase our expenses and/or limit our prospects for growth. therefore, even if our retrospective responsibility plan adequately safeguards us from the monetary impact of settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation, it may not be sufficient to insulate us from all potential adverse consequences of settlements of, and judgments in, the covered litigation. the retrospective responsibility plan depends, in part, on the timely completion of our proposed initial public offering, and if we are unable to close our proposed initial public offering in a timely manner, we may have insufficient funds to pay settlements of, or judgments in, such litigation, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. visa u.s.a. and visa international are currently involved in the litigation described under item 3 legal and regulatory proceedings retrospective responsibility plan . plaintiffs in these litigation matters have alleged substantial damages. upon the closing of our proposed initial public offering, we intend to deposit a portion of the net proceeds from such offering, as determined by the litigation committee, in an escrow account from which settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation will be payable. we intend to use the funds in 31 table of contents the escrow account to satisfy the settlement obligations of visa u.s.a. in the american express litigation and, as described below, to make payments relating to obligations of visa u.s.a., visa international and, in certain instances, visa inc., in connection with future settlement of, or judgments in, covered litigation. the settlement agreement for the american express litigation requires that we make an initial payment of $945 million on or before march 31, 2008 and that, beginning march 31, 2008, we pay american express an additional amount of up to $70 million each quarter for 16 quarters, for a maximum total of $1.12 billion. it may be difficult for us to fund settlement of any of the covered litigation prior to the completion of our proposed initial public offering because we plan to use the escrow account as our primary source of funds for the payment of any potential losses arising from the covered litigation. further, visa u.s.a., visa international and visa inc. have entered into a loss sharing agreement and a judgment sharing agreement in the interchange litigation, which became effective on july 1, 2007, with certain of their members, which provide that these members will be responsible for their proportionate share of the liabilities associated with the covered litigation. however, the loss sharing agreement provides that if we do not timely pursue and consummate an initial public offering, including having completed an initial public offering before may 28, 2008, the date that is 240 days after completion of the reorganization, the members obligations under the loss sharing agreement may be suspended until we have completed an initial public offering, at which point such obligations will be reinstated in full as if they had never been suspended. the 240-day period may be extended under certain circumstances. in addition, this agreement provides that the signing banks are responsible only for a proportionate amount of the liability in respect of the covered litigation equal to their membership proportion, as calculated in accordance with visa u.s.a. certificate of incorporation. because not all of visa u.s.a. members have signed the loss sharing agreement, until the funding of the escrow account pursuant to the retrospective responsibility plan, we would also need to rely upon those members indemnification obligations contained in visa u.s.a. certificate of incorporation and bylaws and as agreed in their membership agreements to recover the remaining portion of any liability from visa u.s.a. members. in addition, if there were a final judgment against us in connection with the covered litigation or if we were to incur a judgment sharing obligation in a covered litigation before our proposed initial public offering, we would have to rely upon the loss sharing agreement, which only indemnifies us for a portion of the liability with respect to the covered litigation that is equal to the aggregate membership proportion of the visa u.s.a. members that sign the loss sharing agreement, as calculated in accordance with visa u.s.a. certificate of incorporation, and we would have to seek indemnification from visa u.s.a. remaining members pursuant to visa u.s.a. certificate of incorporation and bylaws and as agreed in their membership agreements. to the extent we are unable to secure indemnification from our members, any portion of such a judgment not covered by our judgment sharing agreements would have to be paid by us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. if the settlements of visa u.s.a. and visa international currency conversion cases are not ultimately approved and we are unsuccessful in any of the various lawsuits relating to visa u.s.a. and visa international currency conversion practices, our business may be materially and adversely affected. visa u.s.a. and visa international are defendants in several state and federal lawsuits alleging that their currency conversion practices are or were deceptive, anti-competitive or otherwise unlawful. in particular, a trial judge in california found that the former currency conversion practices of visa u.s.a. and visa international were deceptive under california state law, and ordered visa u.s.a. and visa international to require their members to disclose the currency conversion process to cardholders in cardholder agreements, applications, solicitations and monthly billing statements. the judge also ordered unspecified restitution to credit card holders. the decision was reversed on appeal on the ground that the plaintiff lacked standing to pursue his claims. after the trial court decision, several putative class actions were filed in california state courts challenging visa u.s.a. and visa international currency conversion practices for credit and debit cards. a number of putative class actions relating to visa u.s.a. and visa international former currency conversion practices were also 32 table of contents filed in federal court. the federal actions have been coordinated or consolidated in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york. the consolidated complaint alleges that the former currency conversion practices of visa u.s.a. and visa international violated federal antitrust laws. on july 20, 2006 and september 14, 2006, visa u.s.a. and visa international entered into agreements settling or otherwise disposing of the federal and state actions and related matters. pursuant to the settlement agreements, visa u.s.a. paid approximately $100 million as part of the defendants settlement fund for the federal actions and will pay approximately $20 million to fund settlement of the california cases. the federal court has granted preliminary approval of the settlement agreements, but the settlement is subject to final approval by the court and resolution of all appeals. if final approval of the settlement agreements is not granted, all of the agreements resolving the federal and state actions will terminate. if that occurs, and we are unsuccessful in defending against some or all of these lawsuits, we may have to pay restitution and/or damages, and may be required to modify our currency conversion practices. the potential amount of damages and/or restitution could be substantial. in addition, although visa u.s.a. and visa international have substantially changed the practices that were at issue in these litigations, if the courts require further changes to our currency conversion and cross-border transaction practices, it could materially and adversely affect our business. see item 3 legal proceedings other legal and regulatory proceedings currency conversion litigation. if visa u.s.a. or visa international is found liable in certain other lawsuits that have been brought against them or if we are found liable in other litigation to which we may become subject in the future, we may be forced to pay substantial damages and/or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues and profitability. in recent years, numerous civil actions and investigations have been filed or initiated against visa u.s.a. and visa international alleging or seeking information as to violations of various competition, antitrust, consumer protection and other laws. these actions and investigations have been filed or initiated by a variety of different parties, including the u.s. department of justice, state attorneys general, merchants, consumers, competing card-issuing companies and other plaintiffs. examples of such claims, which are described more fully under item 3 legal proceedings other legal and regulatory proceedings , include the following: various state court actions based on a federal merchant class action lawsuit that visa u.s.a. settled in 2003, alleging unlawful tying of credit and debit card services, attempted monopolization and other state law competition claims; a patent infringement claim against visa u.s.a. and visa international involving the verified by visa product; a claim of patent infringement, misrepresentation, breach of contract and antitrust violations against visa international relating to a license agreement for smart card technology; two state unfair competition law claims, one against visa u.s.a. and visa international based in part on visa u.s.a. past practice of prohibiting member financial institutions from issuing certain competing payment cards, and another against visa u.s.a. and visa international alleging failure to inform cardholders of a security breach in a timely manner; a promissory estoppel and misrepresentation claim against visa u.s.a. and visa international regarding deferment of a deadline for laboratory certification of atm devices meeting heightened data encryption standards; a trademark infringement claim against visa international in venezuela in connection with the visa vale product; a civil investigative demand to visa u.s.a. from the office of the attorney general for the district of columbia, in coordination with the attorneys general of new york and ohio, seeking information regarding practices related to pin debit cards; 33 table of contents a patent infringement claim against visa u.s.a. and visa international regarding certain visa contactless payment technology; a patent infringement claim against visa u.s.a. regarding prepaid card products; and two civil investigative demands issued by the antitrust division of the u.s. department of justice to visa u.s.a., one concerning pin debit and visa u.s.a. no signature required program, and the other regarding visa u.s.a. agreements with financial institutions that issue visa debit cards, respectively. private plaintiffs often seek class action certification in cases against us, particularly in cases involving merchants and consumers, due to the size and scope of our business and the large number of parties that are involved in our payment system. although our retrospective responsibility plan is intended to address potential monetary liabilities arising from the specific litigation described under item 3 legal proceedings retrospective responsibility plan covered litigation , the plan does not cover other litigation that we currently face, and will not cover litigation, including state court litigation, that we may face in the future, except for cases that include claims for damages relating to the period prior to our proposed initial public offering that are transferred for pre-trial proceedings or otherwise included in the interchange litigation. we cannot predict whether or to what extent we will be subject to litigation liability that is not covered by our retrospective responsibility plan. if we are unsuccessful in our defense against any of the proceedings described above or in any future proceedings, we may be forced to pay substantial damages and/or change our business practices or our pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from other companies suggesting that we may be infringing a pre-existing patent or that we need to license use of their patents to avoid infringement. such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us. holders of patents may pursue claims against us in the future if they believe their patents are being infringed by our product or service offerings. based on our experience with such claims to date, we do not believe that any such claims would prevent us from continuing to operate our payments system or market any of our significant core products and services in substantially the same or equivalent manner as we have to date. limitations on our business and other penalties resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years as a result of litigation and litigation settlements. for example, as a result of the june 2003 settlement of a u.s. merchant lawsuit against visa u.s.a., merchants are able to reject visa consumer debit cards in the united states while still accepting other visa-branded cards, and vice versa. in addition, following the final judgment entered in the litigation the u.s. department of justice, or doj, brought against visa u.s.a. and visa international in 1998, as of october 2004, members of visa u.s.a. may issue certain competing payment cards. since this final judgment, several members of visa u.s.a. have begun to issue, or have announced that they will issue, american express or discover-branded cards. see item 3 legal proceedings other legal and regulatory proceedings department of justice antitrust case and related litigation . in addition, pursuant to a court order, certain visa u.s.a. debit issuers may be able to terminate some parts of their agreements with us. visa u.s.a. bylaws provided that a settlement service fee was to be paid by certain visa u.s.a. members that shifted a substantial portion of their offline debit card volume to another debit brand unless that shift was to the american express or discover brands. in june 2007, a federal court ruled that the settlement service fee violated the final judgment entered in the case the doj brought against visa u.s.a., visa international and mastercard in 1998. see item 3 legal proceedings other legal and regulatory proceedings department of justice antitrust case and related litigation . as a remedy, the court ordered visa u.s.a. to repeal the settlement service fee bylaw. further, any visa u.s.a. debit issuer subject to the settlement 34 table of contents service fee prior to its repeal that entered into an agreement with visa u.s.a. that includes offline debit issuance on or after june 20, 2003 is now permitted to terminate that agreement, provided that the issuer has entered into an agreement to issue mastercard-branded debit cards and has repaid to visa u.s.a. any unearned benefits or financial incentives under its visa u.s.a. agreement. the settlement service fee bylaw was rescinded as of the effective date of the order, but visa u.s.a. has appealed other aspects of the court decision, including the contract termination portion of the court remedy. see item 3 legal proceedings other legal and regulatory proceedings department of justice antitrust case and related litigation . the developments discussed above and any future limitations on our business resulting from settlements of, or judgments in, pending or potential litigation could limit the fees we charge and reduce our payments volume, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. if we are partially or wholly unable to realize the benefit of our deferred tax assets related to our litigation expenses incurred in connection with the covered litigation, our financial results and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. the fiscal 2007 statement of operations of visa u.s.a. reflects a litigation provision of $2.7 billion associated with the settlement of the american express litigation and management liability estimate under the guidelines of sfas no. 5 related to the discover litigation and other matters. for tax purposes, the deduction related to these matters is deferred until the payments are made and thus visa u.s.a. established a deferred tax asset of $778 million related to these payments, which is net of a reserve to reflect our best estimate of the amount of the benefit to be realized. although we believe that the estimates and judgments we made in establishing our deferred tax asset and related reserves are reasonable, some or all of these judgments are subject to review by the taxing authorities. if one or more of the taxing authorities were to successfully challenge our right to realize some or all of the tax benefit we have recorded and we were unable to realize this benefit, it could have a material and adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. the payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may result in costly new compliance burdens being imposed on us and our customers and lead to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues. we and our customers are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in many countries in which our cards are used. regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. examples of such regulation include: anti-money laundering regulation. most jurisdictions in which we and our customers operate have implemented, amended or have pending anti-money laundering regulations, such as the u.s.a. patriot act, which requires the creation and implementation of comprehensive anti-money laundering programs. u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control regulation . visa u.s.a. and visa international are subject to regulations imposed by the u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control, or ofac. ofac restricts financial dealings with cuba, iran, myanmar and sudan, as well as financial dealings with certain restricted parties, such as identified money laundering fronts for terrorists or narcotics traffickers. while we prohibit financial institutions that are domiciled in those countries or are restricted parties from being visa members, many visa international members are non-u.s. financial institutions, and thus are not subject to ofac restrictions. accordingly, our payments system may be used for transactions in or involving countries or parties subject to ofac-administered sanctions. regulation of the price of credit . in recent years, legislation, regulations or other legal requirements affecting credit cards have been adopted in a number of the jurisdictions in which our cards are used. for example, in the united states, congress and the federal banking agencies have increased their 35 table of contents scrutiny of the disclosure and billing practices of credit card issuers. the federal reserve board has proposed significant changes to regulation z, under the federal truth in lending act, which, if implemented, could have a significant affect on the advertising, disclosure and billing practices of card issuers. proposed or other changes to the laws and or regulations affecting credit card operations and pricing could increase the costs of card issuance and/or decrease the flexibility of card issuers to charge interest rates and fees on credit card accounts. any such unfavorable regulation of the practices of card issuers could result in a decrease in our payments volume and revenues. regulation of internet transactions. many jurisdictions in which our customers and we operate are considering, or are expected to consider, legislation concerning internet transactions, and in particular with regard to choice of law, the legality of certain e-commerce transactions, the collection of applicable taxes and copyright and trademark infringement. such legislation may make it less desirable or more costly to complete internet transactions using our cards. safety and soundness regulation. in recent years, federal banking regulators in the united states have adopted a series of regulatory measures intended to require more conservative accounting, greater risk management and higher capital requirements for bank credit card activities, which may make becoming an issuer of our cards less attractive. increased regulatory focus in connection with the matters discussed above may increase our costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause a reduction in payments volume, which could materially adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. existing and proposed regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security could decrease the number of payment cards issued, our payments volume and revenues. we and our customers are subject to regulations related to privacy and data use and security in the jurisdictions in which we do business, and we could be adversely affected by these regulations. for example, in the united states, we and our customers are subject to the banking regulators information safeguard rules and the federal trade commission rules under the gramm-leach-bliley act. the rules require that we and our customers develop, implement and maintain written, comprehensive information security programs containing safeguards that are appropriate to our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. in recent years, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach. in the united states, a number of bills have been introduced in congress and there have been several congressional hearings to address these issues. congress will likely consider data security/data breach legislation in 2008 that, if implemented, could affect our customers and us. in addition, a number of u.s. states have enacted security breach legislation requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach, and several other states are considering similar legislation. regulation of privacy, data use and security may materially increase our costs and our customers costs and may decrease the number of our cards that our customers issue, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. our failure, or the failure of our customers, to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions and damage to our global reputation and our brand. government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in certain countries have acted, or could act, to provide resources or protection to selected national payment card providers or national payment processing providers to support domestic competitors or to displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular 36 table of contents geographies. for example, our members in china are not permitted to issue our cards for domestic use in china. governments in certain other countries have considered similar restrictions from time to time. our efforts to effect change in countries where our access to the domestic payments segment is limited may not be successful, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. if government regulators determine that we are a systemically important payments system, we may have to change our settlement procedures or other operations, which could make it more costly to operate our business and reduce our operational flexibility. a number of international initiatives are underway to maintain financial stability by strengthening financial infrastructure. the committee on payment and settlement systems of the central banks of the group of ten countries has developed a set of core principles for systemically important payment systems. government regulators in the united states or elsewhere may determine that we are a systemically important payments system and impose settlement risk management requirements on us, including new settlement procedures or other operational rules to address credit and operational risks or new criteria for member participation and merchant access to our payments system. any of these developments could make it more costly to operate our business. our framework agreement with visa europe includes indemnity obligations that could expose us to significant liabilities. under our framework agreement with visa europe, we are required to indemnify visa europe for losses resulting from any claims in the united states or anywhere else outside of visa europe region arising from our or their activities that relate to our payments business or the payments business of visa europe. this obligation applies whether or not we or any of our related parties or agents participated in the actions that gave rise to such claims. such an obligation could expose us to significant liabilities for activities over which we have little or no control. these liabilities would not be covered by our retrospective responsibility plan. business risks we face intense competitive pressure on customer pricing, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we generate revenues from fees we charge our customers that are based on payments volume, transaction messages processed and various other services we provide. in order to increase payments volume, enter new market segments and expand our card base, we offer incentives to customers, such as up-front cash payments, fee discounts, credits, performance-based growth incentives, marketing support payments and other support, such as marketing consulting and market research studies. over the past several years, we have increased our use of incentives such as up-front cash payments and fee discounts in many countries, including the united states. in order to stay competitive, we may have to continue to increase our use of incentives. such pricing pressure may make the provision of certain products and services less profitable or unprofitable and materially and adversely affect our operating revenues and profitability. to the extent that we continue to increase incentives to our customers, we will need to further increase payments volume or the amount of services we provide in order to benefit incrementally from such arrangements and to increase revenues and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so. in addition, we enter into long-term contracts with certain customers, and continued pressure on fees could prevent us from entering into such agreements in the future on terms that we consider favorable or may require us to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships. increased pricing pressure also enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives, and we may not succeed in these efforts. our operating results may suffer because of intense competition in the global payments industry. the global payments industry is intensely competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including cash, checks and electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house 37 table of contents payments. in addition, our payment programs compete against the card-based payments systems of our competitors, such as mastercard, american express, discover and private-label cards issued by merchants. some of our competitors may develop substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer, may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have or may develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements. our competitors may also introduce more innovative programs and services than ours. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers, without involving intermediaries. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from their business models. for example, operators of closed-loop payments systems tend to have greater control over consumer and merchant customer service than operators of open-loop multi-party payments systems such as ours, in which we must rely on our issuing and acquiring financial institution customers. in addition, these competitors have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of open-loop multi-party payments systems such as ours. we also expect that there may be changes in the competitive landscape in the future, including: competitors, customers and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added services we currently provide to support our transaction processing. for example, in recent years some of our competitors and members have begun to compete with our currency conversion services by providing dynamic currency conversion services. dynamic currency conversion is a service offered or facilitated by a merchant or processor that allows a cardholder to choose to have a transaction converted from the merchant currency into the cardholder billing currency at the point of sale in real-time, thereby bypassing our currency conversion processes. dynamic currency conversion services could, if significant numbers of cardholders choose to use them, replace our own currency conversion processing services or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these services. if we process fewer transactions or are forced to change our pricing or practices for our currency conversion processing because of competing dynamic currency conversion services or otherwise, our revenues may be materially and adversely affected. parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position in the payments value chain. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business propositions or create new payment services that compete with our services. competition from alternative types of payment services, such as online payment services and services that permit direct debit of consumer checking accounts or automatic clearing house, or ach, payments, may increase. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats, could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. our operating revenues would decline significantly if we lost one or more of our largest customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. a significant portion of our operating revenues are concentrated among our largest customers. our pro forma operating revenues from our five largest customers represented approximately $1.2 billion, or 23%, and $938 million, or 24%, of our total pro forma operating revenues for fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. in 38 table of contents addition, our pro forma operating revenues from our largest customer, jpmorgan chase, accounted for $454 million, or 9%, and $408 million, or 10%, of our pro forma operating revenues for fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. most of our larger customer relationships are not exclusive and in certain circumstances (including, in some cases, on relatively short notice) may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. loss of business from any of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. consolidation of the banking industry could result in our losing business and may create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. over the last several years, the banking industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and we expect this trend to continue in the future. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in one of our largest customers being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a competitor, resulting in a substantial loss of business. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with or acquire one of our competitors, and any such transaction could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. continued consolidation in the banking industry would also reduce the overall number of our customers and potential customers and could increase the bargaining power of our remaining customers and potential customers. this consolidation could lead financial institutions to seek greater pricing discounts or other incentives with us. in addition, consolidation could prompt our existing customers to seek to renegotiate their pricing agreements with us to obtain more favorable terms. pressure on the fees we charge our customers caused by such consolidation could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. merchants are pursuing litigation and supporting regulatory proceedings relating to the costs associated with payment card acceptance and are negotiating incentive arrangements, including pricing discounts, all of which may increase our costs and materially and adversely affect our profitability. we rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our customers to maintain and expand the acceptance of our payment cards. we believe that consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants that are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry. for instance, some large merchants are bringing lawsuits against us with regard to, or advocating regulation of, interchange fees, which may represent a significant cost that merchants pay to accept payment cards. the emphasis merchants are placing on the costs associated with payment card acceptance may lead to additional regulation and litigation, which would not be covered by our retrospective responsibility plan and which could impair our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. we, along with our customers, negotiate pricing discounts and other incentive arrangements with certain large merchants to increase acceptance of our payment cards. if merchants continue to consolidate, we and our customers may have to increase the incentives provided to certain larger merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. certain financial institutions have exclusive, or near exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. certain financial institutions have long-standing exclusive, or near exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do material amounts of business with them in order to increase our revenues. in addition, these financial institutions may be more successful and may grow faster than the financial institutions that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. 39 table of contents we depend significantly on our relationships with our customers and other third parties to deliver services and manage our payments system. as a result, our success and reputation are significantly dependent on the success of our customers and the quality of the services they provide. if we are unable to maintain those relationships, or if third parties on which we depend fail to deliver services on our behalf, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on relationships with our customers and their relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. in addition, we do not generally solicit merchants to accept our cards and we do not establish the discount rates that merchants are charged for card acceptance, which are responsibilities of acquirers. as a result, the success of our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our customers and the strength of our relationships with them. outside of the united states and certain other countries, most domestic (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using our payment cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors without involving our processing systems. because we do not provide domestic transaction processing services in these countries, do not generally have direct relationships with merchants and never have direct relationships with cardholders, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage the processing of transactions involving our cards. our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards carrying our brands in many countries may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to ensure the quality of the services supporting our brand. in addition, we depend on third parties to provide various services on our behalf and to the extent that any third party vendors fail to deliver services, our business and reputation could be impaired. our brands and reputation are key assets of our business and may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain consumer cardholders and corporate clients to visa-branded products is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our company and our industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as predatory, which may materially and adversely impact our business. adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. global economic, political and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending and cross-border travel, which may materially and adversely impact our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. for example, a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions, particularly in the united states and the asia-pacific region, where approximately 66% and 14%, respectively, of our pro forma revenues were generated for fiscal 2007 and, 71% and 12%, respectively, of our pro forma revenues were generated for fiscal 2006, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate, may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards carrying our brands. a significant portion of the revenues we earn outside the united states results from cross-border business and leisure travel, which may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic and other conditions, including the threat of terrorism and outbreak of diseases, such as sars and avian flu. in particular, revenues from processing foreign currency transactions for our customers fluctuate with cross-border travel and our customers need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. in addition, as we are principally 40 table of contents domiciled in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. as a guarantor of certain obligations of visa members, we are exposed to risk of loss or insolvency if any member fails to fund its settlement obligations. we indemnify visa members for any settlement loss suffered due to the failure of a member to fund its daily settlement obligations. in certain instances, we indemnify members even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. the indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the difference in timing between the date of payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. the term and amount of the indemnification are unlimited. while we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by any of the largest visa members, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our largest members or several of the smaller visa members, or systemic operational failures that last for more than a single day, may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the amount of such payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. settlement at risk (or exposure) is estimated using the average daily volumes during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, and the total balance for outstanding travelers cheques. our estimated settlement exposure, after consideration of collateral that we require certain financial institutions to post, amounted to approximately $28.8 billion at october 1, 2007. some visa members are composed of groups of financial institutions. some of these members have elected to limit their responsibility for settlement losses arising from the failure of their constituent financial institutions in exchange for managing their constituent financial institutions in accordance with our credit risk policy. to the extent that any settlement failure resulting from a constituent financial institution exceeds the limits established by our credit risk policy, we would have to absorb the cost of such settlement failure, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flow. if our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions efficiently, our revenues or operating results and the perception of our brands could be materially and adversely affected. our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions or degradation as a result of processing or other technology malfunction, fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism or accident. our visibility in the global payments industry may attract terrorists and hackers to conduct physical or computer-based attacks, leading to an interruption in service, increased costs or the compromise of data security. additionally, we rely on service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. if a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands reliability and materially reduce our revenues or profitability. if we are not able to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in the payments industry to provide customers, merchants and cardholders with new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, which could reduce our revenues and income. the payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), e-commerce and mobile commerce, among others. we cannot predict the effect of 41 table of contents technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card products and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards, by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes or by intellectual property rights of third parties. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. account data breaches involving card data stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenues. we and our customers, merchants and other third parties store cardholder account information in connection with our payment cards. in addition, our customers may use third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving our cards, reputational damage and lead to claims against us. for example, in january 2007, tjx companies, inc., a large retailer with stores in the united states, canada and the united kingdom, disclosed a significant security breach in connection with card and account information, which exposed tens of millions of payment cards issued under our brands and our competitors brands to fraudulent use. if we are sued in connection with any data security breach, we could be involved in protracted litigation. if unsuccessful in defending such lawsuits, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. in addition, any reputational damage resulting from an account data breach at one of our customers, merchants or other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which could have a material adverse impact on our payments volume, revenues and future growth prospects. finally, any data security breach could result in additional regulation, which could materially increase our costs. an increase in fraudulent and other illegal activity involving our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft. as outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. if fraud levels involving our cards were to rise, it could lead to reputational damage to our brands, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards, or to greater regulation, which could increase our compliance costs. visa europe payments system operations are becoming increasingly independent from ours, and if we are unable to maintain seamless interaction of our respective systems, our business and the global perception of the visa brand could be impaired. visa europe currently has a regionally controlled processing platform. in june 2006, visa europe began operating an authorization system that is separate from ours and visa europe plans to begin operating a transaction clearing and settlement system that is separate from ours. because we and visa europe have independent processing platforms, interoperability must be maintained. visa europe authorization system has experienced interruptions in service, and it could experience further interruptions in the future. to the extent that system disruptions occur, it may affect our cardholders who are traveling in visa europe region and impair our reputation. the increasingly independent payments system operations of visa europe could present certain challenges to our business because differences between the two processing systems may make it more difficult to maintain the interoperability of our respective systems. in addition, under the framework agreement, we are restricted from requiring visa europe to implement certain changes that we may deem important unless we agree to pay for the implementation costs. any of the foregoing could result in a loss of payments volume or of customers or could materially increase our costs. 42 table of contents adverse currency fluctuations could decrease revenues and increase expenses. we conduct business globally in many foreign currencies, but report our financial results in u.s. dollars. we are therefore exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates because depreciation of non-u.s. currencies against the u.s. dollar reduces the u.s. dollar value of the non-u.s. dollar denominated revenues that we recognize and appreciation of non-u.s. currencies against the u.s. dollar increases the u.s. dollar value of expenses that we incur that are denominated in those foreign currencies. we enter into foreign currency hedging contracts to reduce the effect of adverse changes in the value of a limited number of foreign currencies and for a limited period of time (typically up to one year). some of our financial incentives to customers are recorded using estimates of our customers performance. material changes in our customers performance compared to our estimates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. in certain instances, we offer our customers financial incentives, which are typically tied to their payments volume or transaction messages processed, often under particular programs. these financial incentives are typically recorded as a reduction of revenues. we typically make estimates of our customers performance under these programs (sometimes over several years) in order to derive our estimates of the financial incentives that we will pay them. the reduction of revenues that we record each quarter under volume and support agreements is based on these estimates. material changes in our customers performance compared to estimates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. for example, if a customer performs better than expected, we may be required to reduce future period revenues to account for the fact that we did not reduce revenues enough in prior periods. on the other hand, if a customer performs worse than expected, we may conclude that we reduced revenues by too much in previous periods. we have significant contingent liabilities for settlement payment of all issued and outstanding travelers cheques. at september 30, 2007, we had over $1 billion in contingent liabilities for settlement payment of all issued and outstanding travelers cheques. approximately 35% of these travelers cheques were issued outside of the united states by a single issuer. while these obligations are supported in part by a bank guarantee, if the issuer were to fail to pay, we would be obligated to fund partial settlement of presented travelers cheques. risks related to our structure and organization the recent change to our governance structure could have a material adverse effect on our business relationships with our customers. prior to our recent reorganization, a number of visa key members had officers who also served on the boards of directors of visa u.s.a., visa international, visa canada or the regional boards of directors of the unincorporated regions of visa ap, visa lac and visa cemea. as a result of our reorganization, the regional boards of directors of the unincorporated regions have been eliminated, and the boards of directors of visa u.s.a. and visa canada are now comprised of management and are largely administrative in nature. in addition, although our regions are represented on our board by six of our 17 directors, the holders of our class b and class c common stock are not otherwise entitled to vote in the election of directors. as a result, the role of member-nominated and member-elected directors in our corporate governance has been reduced as a result of the reorganization. these changes could have a detrimental effect on our business relationships with members associated with a particular region. in addition, if a member that had an officer who also served on one of the regional boards of directors does not have an officer who currently serves on our board of directors, our business relationship with that member could suffer. a significant loss of revenues or payments volume attributable to such members could have a material adverse effect on our business. 43 table of contents our relationship with visa europe is governed by our framework agreement, which gives visa europe very broad rights to operate the visa business in visa europe region. we have limited ability to control their operations and limited recourse in the event of a breach by visa europe. historically, visa europe had been subject to the same global operating rules as visa u.s.a., visa international and visa canada. these global operating rules regulate, among other things, interoperability of payment processing, brand maintenance and investment, standards for products and services, risk management, disputes between members and acceptance standards for merchants. after the reorganization, visa europe, unlike visa u.s.a., visa international and visa canada, did not become our subsidiary. as a result, visa europe is no longer subject to the same global operating rules as our subsidiaries and customers. our relationship with visa europe is now governed by a framework agreement and a subset of operating rules that we have agreed to with visa europe and that we have limited ability to change in the future. although the agreement seeks to ensure that visa europe operates in a manner that is acceptable to us, the contractual arrangement is untested and may not be effective in achieving this result. visa europe is responsible for designing its own plans to ensure that it is in compliance with the global rules, interoperability, integrity of the system and trademark usage. while we have the right to request changes to these plans, we have no right to audit their compliance with these requirements or examine their books and records in connection with the framework agreement or the put option. the agreement provides visa europe with very broad latitude to operate the visa business and use our brands and technology within visa europe region and provides us limited controls over the operation of the visa business in their region. visa europe is not required to spend any minimum amount promoting and building the visa brand in its region, and the strength of the visa global brand is contingent, in part, on the efforts of visa europe to maintain product and service recognition and quality in europe. visa europe may develop, among other things, new brands, payment processing characteristics, products, services, risk management standards, processes for resolving disputes among its members or merchant acceptance profiles that are inconsistent with the operating rules that we apply in the rest of the world. if we want to change a global rule or require visa europe to implement certain changes that would not have a positive return for visa europe and its members, then visa europe is not required to implement such rule or change unless we agree to pay for the implementation costs and expenses that visa europe and its members will incur as a consequence of the implementation to the extent necessary to return visa europe and its members to a neutral financial condition. we cannot terminate the framework agreement even in the event of visa europe material uncured breach, and we can only exercise our call right to purchase visa europe under extremely limited circumstances. our remedies under this agreement, if visa europe fails to meet its obligations, are limited. our inability to terminate and other features of the licenses granted under the agreement may also raise issues concerning the characterization of the licenses for purposes of determining our tax treatment with respect to entering into the licenses and receiving payments thereunder. any inconsistency in the payment processing services and products that we are able to provide could negatively affect cardholders from visa europe using cards in our regions or our cardholders using cards in visa europe region. we have granted to visa europe the right to require us to purchase all of the outstanding shares of visa europe capital stock. if visa europe exercises this option, we will incur a substantial financial obligation. in addition, we are required to record any change in the fair value of the put option on a quarterly basis, which will impact our net income. we have granted visa europe a put option, which, if exercised, will require us to purchase all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of visa europe from its members. visa europe may exercise the put option at any time following the date that is the earlier of (i) 365 days after the completion of an initial public offering of our common stock; and (ii) may 30, 2009. the purchase price of the visa europe shares under the put option is based upon a formula that, subject to certain adjustments, applies the 12-month forward price-to-earnings multiple applicable to our common stock at the time the option is exercised to visa europe projected sustainable adjusted net operating income for the same 12-month period. upon exercise of the put option, we will be obligated, subject only to regulatory approvals and other limited conditions, to pay the purchase price within 44 table of contents 285 days in cash or, at our option, with a combination of cash and shares of our publicly tradable common stock. the portion of the purchase price we will be able to pay in stock will initially be limited to the percentage of our class c (series i) common stock that at the settlement date remains subject to the transfer restrictions. we must pay the purchase price in cash, however, if the settlement of the put option occurs more than three years after the completion of our proposed initial public offering. we will incur a substantial financial obligation if visa europe exercises the put option. the amount of that potential obligation could vary dramatically based on, among other things, the 12 month projected sustainable net operating income of visa europe, the allocation of cost synergies, the trading price of our class a common stock, and our 12-month forward price-to-earnings multiple, in each case, as determined at the time the put option is exercised. we are not currently able to estimate the amount of this obligation due to the nature and number of factors involved and the range of important assumptions that would be required. however, depending upon visa europe level of sustainable profitability and/or our 12-month forward price-to-earnings multiple at the time of any exercise of the option, the amount of this obligation could be several billion dollars or more. we may need to obtain third-party financing, either by borrowing funds or undertaking a subsequent equity offering, in order to meet our obligation. this financing may not be available to us in a sufficient amount within the required 285-day period or on terms that we deem to be reasonable. the payment of part of the exercise price in stock would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. moreover, the acquisition of visa europe following an exercise of the put option would require us to integrate the operations of visa europe into our business, which could divert the time and attention of senior management. we recorded the put option at its fair value in our consolidated balance sheet on october 1, 2007 as part of the reorganization. in the future, we will be required to record any change in the fair value of the put option on a quarterly basis. these adjustments will be recorded through our consolidated statements of operations, which will therefore impact our reported net income and earnings per share. such quarterly adjustments and their resulting impact on our reported statements of operations could be significant. the existence of these charges could adversely affect our ability to raise capital and/or the price at which we can raise capital. see item 13 certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with visa europe the put-call option agreement . the terms of our reorganization created financial incentives that reward net revenue growth in the four quarters ended december 31, 2007. one of the terms of our reorganization plan was a true up mechanism designed to reallocate the shares initially distributed to the members of visa u.s.a. and visa international, and the former members of visa canada, among themselves, based on each participating region relative under- or over-achievement of its net revenue targets during a measurement period consisting of the four-quarter period ending with (and including) the latest quarter for which financial statements are included in the registration statement in connection with our proposed initial public offering on the date it is declared effective by the sec. we expect that the measurement period will consist of the four quarters ended december 31, 2007. this mechanism creates financial incentives that reward net revenue growth in the measurement period. because comparable incentives did not exist in prior periods and will not exist in future periods, it is possible that the rate of revenue growth in the measurement period will not be representative of rates that may be expected in future periods. our management team is new and does not have a history of working together. we designated joseph w. saunders as our chief executive officer and chairman of our board in may 2007 and have since assembled a new management team, including john (hans) c. morris, our president, and byron h. pollitt, our chief financial officer. our success will largely depend on the ability of the new management team to work together to integrate the operations and business of visa u.s.a., visa international and visa canada, and to continue to execute our business strategy. because our management team does not have 45 table of contents a significant history of working together and includes individuals recruited from outside our company, they may not be able to work together effectively, which could disrupt our operations and harm our business. our recent reorganization will require us to make significant changes to our culture and business operations. if we fail to make this transition successfully, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our recent reorganization will require broad and significant changes to our culture and operations. historically, the primary goal of visa u.s.a., visa international and visa canada has not been to maximize profit for these entities, but rather to deliver benefits to their members and enhance member opportunity and revenue. as a result of the reorganization, we now must operate our business in a way that maximizes long-term stockholder value. many of our employees have limited experience operating in a profit-maximizing business environment. in addition, the visa enterprise historically has been operated under a decentralized regional structure, and each region has had substantial autonomy in its own business strategies and decisions. our recent reorganization has resulted in a more centralized corporate governance structure in which our board of directors exerts centralized management control. we face significant challenges integrating the operations of the different regions. we may also be unable to retain and attract key employees, and we may not realize the cost savings and operational efficiencies that we currently expect. this transition will be subject to risks, expenses and difficulties that we cannot predict and may not be capable of handling in an efficient and timely manner. any acquisitions that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. we may make strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies. if so, we may not be able to successfully finance or integrate any such businesses, products or technologies. furthermore, the integration of any acquisition may divert management time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenues. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. while we from time to time evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions. our regional classes of common stock, our class b common stock and our class c common stock into which our regional classes of common stock may be converted, are subject to significant restrictions on transfer and ownership. the regional classes of our common stock that were issued upon the closing of the reorganization, and our class b common stock and class c common stock into which our regional classes of common stock will be converted prior to our proposed initial public offering, are and will be subject to significant ownership and transfer restrictions. for example, subject to limited exceptions, shares of our class b common stock may not be transferred until the later of three years from the date of an initial public offering or the period of time necessary to resolve the covered litigation. all other regional classes of our common stock and our class c common stock may not be transferred, subject to limited exceptions, until the third anniversary of the date of an initial public offering. during such periods, except for limited exceptions, holders of our regional classes of common stock, and our class b common stock and class c common stock will not be able to transfer such stock to any person or entity other than affiliates of the holder or, in the case of class b and class c common stock, to holders of common stock of the same class of common stock. ownership of a significant percentage of our common stock is concentrated in a few of our largest members. our four largest stockholders own approximately 25% of our outstanding common stock. this concentration of voting power could result in these stockholders having the ability to block stockholder action that other holders of our common stock may deem favorable. 46 table of contents the u.s. internal revenue service may treat a portion of our common stock received by a member of visa international or visa u.s.a. as taxable income. based on the opinion of our special tax counsel, we believe that, subject to the assumptions, qualifications and limitations contained in such opinion, we, the members of visa international and the members of visa u.s.a. will not recognize any gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes in connection with the reorganization and the true-up, except that, as to a portion of any visa inc. stock received in connection with the true-up, a stockholder of visa inc. may recognize imputed interest income. if a stockholder is not a united states person for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we may be required to withhold u.s. federal income tax at a rate of 30% of the imputed interest or, if applicable, at a lower treaty rate. notwithstanding the foregoing, the opinion of our special tax counsel does not apply to the extent that the fair market value of our common stock received by a member of visa international or by a member of visa u.s.a. pursuant to the reorganization and the true-up (whether received on the date of closing of the reorganization or thereafter) is different from the fair market value of such member equity interest in visa international or visa u.s.a., as the case may be, immediately before the commencement of the reorganization. our special tax counsel is unable to opine as to such difference because, in transactions similar to the reorganization and the true-up, treatment as an exchange described in section 351 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, generally applies only to the extent that a taxpayer transfers property to a corporation in exchange for stock having the same fair market value. the irs might therefore take the position that the difference (whether received on the date of closing of the reorganization or thereafter), in the case of an excess of value received over value surrendered, should not be treated for u.s. federal income tax purposes as having been received in exchange for property. as a result, a member of visa international or a member of visa u.s.a. could be required to recognize income, but only to the extent of the excess or shortfall of value received over value surrendered. the shares of class b common stock that are retained by members of visa u.s.a. will be subject to dilution as a result of the establishment of the escrow account and any follow-on offerings of our class a common stock, the proceeds of which will be used to fund additional amounts into the escrow account necessary to resolve the covered litigation. the shares of class b common stock that are retained by visa u.s.a. members and that are not redeemed out of the proceeds of the proposed initial public offering will be subject to dilution to the extent of the initial amount of the escrow account. this dilution of the shares of class b common stock will be accomplished through an adjustment to the conversion rate of the shares of class b common stock. these shares will not be able to be converted into shares of class a common stock or, subject to limited exceptions, transferred until the later of the third anniversary of an initial public offering or the final resolution of the covered litigation. the shares of class c common stock, which will be held by members other than the visa u.s.a. members, will not be subject to this dilutive adjustment. after the completion of our proposed initial public offering and at the request of the litigation committee, we expect to conduct follow-on offerings of our shares of class a common stock, which we refer to as loss shares, if the litigation committee deems it desirable to increase the escrow account. the proceeds from the sale of loss shares would then be deposited in the escrow account, and the shares of class b common stock would be subject to additional dilution to the extent of the loss shares through a concurrent adjustment to the conversion rate of the class b common stock. because the voting power of the class b and class c common stock, and the entitlement of the holders of class b common stock and class c common stock to participate in dividends or distributions upon a liquidation or winding up of visa inc. is determined on an as converted basis, based upon the number of shares of class a common stock into which the class b or class c common stock would be converted at the time of the vote, dividend or distribution, as applicable, the adjustment to the conversion rate applicable to the class b common stock upon the issuance of loss shares will result in a dilution of the voting power of the class b common stock and the entitlement of holders of class b common stock to participate in dividends and distributions upon a liquidation of visa inc. 47 table of contents anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a takeover attempt or a change in control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law could delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. except for limited exceptions, no person may own more than 15% of our total outstanding shares on an as-converted basis or more than 15% of any class or series of our common stock, unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares. in addition, except for common stock issued to a member in connection with the reorganization, or shares issuable on conversion of such common stock, shares held by a member, a competitor, an affiliate or member of a competitor may not exceed 5% of any class of common stock. in addition: our board of directors will be divided into three classes, with approximately one-third of our directors elected each year; following the closing of an initial public offering until the third anniversary of such offering, six directors will be individuals elected or nominated by our regions; our independent directors may be removed only upon the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the outstanding shares of class a common stock; our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors; holders of our class a common stock are not entitled to act by written consent; our stockholders must provide timely notice for any stockholder proposals and director nominations; we have adopted provisions that eliminate the personal liability of directors for monetary damages for actions taken as a director, with certain exceptions; in addition to certain class votes, a vote of 66 2 / 3 % or more of all of the outstanding shares of our common stock then entitled to vote is required to amend certain sections of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation; and we will be governed by section 203 of the general corporation law of the state of delaware, or dgcl, as amended from time to time, which provides that a corporation shall not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the time that such stockholder became an interested stockholder, except under certain circumstances including upon receipt of prior board approval. our ability to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock in the future is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. we have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock. after the completion of our proposed initial public offering, we intend to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis on our class a, class b and class c common stock. any future payment of dividends will be dependent upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows. however, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. payment of future dividends, if any, would be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, covenants in our debt instruments and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. furthermore, no dividend may be declared or paid on any class or series of common stock unless an equivalent dividend is contemporaneously declared and paid on each other class and series of common stock. if, as a consequence of these various factors, we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to make payments of dividends on our common stock. 48 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . 98 table of contentsrisk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees are subject to significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenues, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. interchange represents a transfer of value between the financial institutions participating in an open-loop payments network such as ours. on purchase transactions, interchange fees are typically paid to issuers, which are the financial institutions that issue visa cards to cardholders, by acquirers, which are the financial institutions that offer visa network connectivity and payments acceptance services to merchants, in connection with transactions initiated with cards in our payments system. we set default interchange rates in the united states and other regions. in certain jurisdictions, interchange rates are subject to government regulation. although we administer the collection and remittance of interchange fees through the settlement process, we generally do not receive any portion of the interchange fees. interchange fees are often the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. we believe that interchange fees are an important driver of system volume. as the volume of card-based payments has increased in recent years, interchange fees, including our default interchange rates, have become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny worldwide. we believe that regulators are increasingly adopting a similar approach to interchange fees, and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulatory approaches in other jurisdictions. interchange fees have been the topic of recent committee hearings in the u.s. house of representatives and the u.s. senate, as well as conferences held by a number of u.s. federal reserve banks. in 2008, legislation concerning interchange, entitled the credit card fair fee act of 2008, was introduced in the u.s. house of representatives. on july 16, 2008, the house judiciary committee held a mark up of the legislation and the committee ultimately adopted the legislation by a divided vote of 19-16. at this point, it is not clear whether the credit card fair fee act will be considered by the full u.s. house of representatives. in its current iteration, the legislation seeks to regulate interchange by allowing merchants to collectively seek to lower their interchange costs by exempting such action from the u.s. antitrust laws. the credit card fair fee act also requires the u.s. 22 table of contents department of justice, or doj, to oversee collective merchant negotiations with the company and its customer financial institutions (and separately with mastercard and its customer financial institutions) and report results of those negotiations back to the u.s. congress. similar legislation to the credit card fair fee act has been introduced in the u.s. senate judiciary committee, but there have not been any hearings on, or further movement of, such legislation. additional interchange legislation also has been introduced in the house, but there have been no further developments with respect to such legislation. in addition, the u.s. house of representatives has passed a bill that would commission a study by the federal trade commission of the role of interchange fees in alleged price-gouging at gas stations. individual state legislatures in the united states are also reviewing interchange fees, and legislators in a number of states have proposed bills that purport to limit interchange fees or merchant discount rates or to prohibit their application to portions of a transaction. in addition, the merchants payments coalition, a coalition of trade associations representing businesses that accept credit and debit cards, is mounting a challenge to interchange fees in the united states by seeking legislative and regulatory intervention. the committee on the judiciary of the house of representatives has approved legislation supported by the merchants payment coalition that would provide antitrust immunity to permit merchants to collectively negotiate with visa and the banks that issue and acquire visa cards. interchange fees and related practices also have been or are being reviewed by regulatory authorities and/or central banks in a number of other jurisdictions, including the european union, australia, brazil, colombia, germany, honduras, hungary, mexico, new zealand, norway, poland, portugal, romania, singapore, south africa, spain, sweden, switzerland, the united kingdom and venezuela. for example: the reserve bank of australia has made regulations under legislation enacted to give it powers over payments systems. one of the regulations controls the costs that can be considered in setting interchange fees for visa credit and debit cards, but does not regulate the merchant discount charged by any payment system, including competing closed-loop payments systems. in 2007, the rba commenced a review of these regulations and in september 2008 released its final conclusions. these indicate that the rba is considering imposing additional restrictions that could further reduce the domestic interchange fees of four-party payments systems and/or impose additional regulatory constraints on certain visa practices, such as visa honor all cards rule. new zealand competition regulator, the commerce commission, filed a civil claim alleging that, among other things, the fixing of default interchange rates by cards nz limited, visa international, mastercard and certain visa international member financial institutions contravenes the new zealand commerce act. a group of new zealand retailers filed a nearly identical claim against the same parties before the same tribunal. both the commerce commission and the retailers seek declaratory, injunctive and monetary relief. in march 2006, banco de m&eacute;xico, the central bank of mexico, reached an agreement with the mexican banks association to implement a new, value-based interchange methodology. as part of banco de m&eacute;xico transparency policies, details of the new interchange rates have been publicly disclosed and are available on banco de m&eacute;xico website. in december 2007, the european commission adopted a decision that mastercard multilateral interchange fees for cross-border payment transactions within the european economic area violated european community treaty rules on restrictive business practices and must be withdrawn within six months. regulatory actions such as these, even if not directed at us or if affecting a geographic region in which we do not operate, may nonetheless increase regulatory scrutiny of interchange fees. if we cannot successfully defend our ability to set default interchange rates to maximize system volume, our payments system may become unattractive to issuers and/or acquirers. this result could reduce the 23 table of contents number of financial institutions willing to participate in our open-loop multi-party payments system, lower overall transaction volumes and/or make closed-loop payments systems or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could also begin to charge higher fees to consumers, thereby making our card programs less desirable and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability. acquirers could elect to charge higher merchant discount rates to merchants, regardless of the level of visa interchange, leading merchants not to accept cards for payment or to steer visa cardholders to alternate payment systems. in addition, issuers or acquirers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card programs by seeking incentives from us or a reduction in the fees that we charge. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. a finding of liability in the interchange litigation may result in substantial damages. since 2005, approximately 50 class action and individual complaints have been filed on behalf of merchants against visa u.s.a., visa international, mastercard and other defendants, including certain visa u.s.a. member financial institutions, which we refer to as the interchange litigation. among other antitrust allegations, the plaintiffs allege that visa u.s.a. and visa international setting of default interchange rates violated federal and state antitrust laws. the lawsuits have been transferred to a multidistrict litigation in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of new york. the class action complaints have been consolidated into a single amended class action complaint and the individual complaints are also being consolidated in the same multidistrict litigation. the plaintiffs in the interchange litigation seek damages for alleged overcharges in merchant discount fees, as well as injunctive and other relief. the plaintiffs have not yet quantified the damages they seek, although several of the complaints allege that the plaintiffs expect that damages will range in the tens of billions of dollars. because these lawsuits were brought under the u.s. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages will be trebled and visa u.s.a. and/or visa international may be subject to joint and several liability among the defendants if liability is established, which could significantly magnify the effect of any adverse judgment. the interchange litigation is part of the covered litigation, which our retrospective responsibility plan is intended to address; however, the retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements of, or judgments in, the interchange litigation. failure to successfully defend or settle the interchange litigation would result in liability that to the extent not covered by our retrospective responsibility plan could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. in addition, even if our direct financial exposure were covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, settlements or judgments involving the multidistrict litigation could include restrictions on our ability to conduct business, which could increase our cost of doing business and limit our prospects for future growth. see our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements and judgments in the covered litigation and will not insulate us from other pending or future litigation and see note 23 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements and judgments in the covered litigation and will not insulate us from other pending or future litigation. our retrospective responsibility plan is intended to address monetary liabilities from settlements of, or final judgments in, the litigation described in note 23 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. the retrospective responsibility plan consists of several related mechanisms to fund settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation, including an escrow account funded with a portion of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and potential follow-on offerings of our class a common stock, a loss sharing agreement, a judgment sharing agreement and 24 table of contents the indemnification obligation of visa u.s.a. members pursuant to visa u.s.a. certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in accordance with their membership agreements. these mechanisms are unique and complex. if we are prevented from using one or more of these mechanisms under our retrospective responsibility plan, we could have difficulty funding the payment of a settlement or final judgment against us in a covered litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. since the retrospective responsibility plan was implemented, we have settled the lawsuits brought by american express and discover, both of which are part of the covered litigation. the american express and discover suits each alleged, among other things, that visa u.s.a. restrained competition by prohibiting its member financial institutions from issuing certain payment cards that compete with visa-branded cards (such as american express and discover) and that each was thereby injured. we, visa u.s.a. and visa international entered into a settlement agreement with american express that became effective on november 9, 2007 and is being funded through our retrospective responsibility plan. we, visa u.s.a., visa international, and mastercard international executed a settlement agreement with discover on october 27, 2008 that became effective on november 4, 2008, upon approval by visa class b shareholders. the settlement will be funded primarily through the retrospective responsibility plan. visa inc. will also make a payment related to a separate agreement with mastercard to obtain releases from claims related to the settlement service fee litigation and other potential claims. see note 23 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. the retrospective responsibility plan does not address litigation other than the covered litigation that we currently face, including state court litigation relating to interchange, and will not cover litigation that we may face in the future, except for cases that include claims for damages relating to the period prior to our initial public offering that are transferred for pre-trial proceedings or otherwise included in the interchange litigation. in addition, our retrospective responsibility plan is designed to cover only the potential monetary liability from settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation. settlements and judgments in covered litigation may require us to modify the way we do business in the future, which could adversely affect our revenues, increase our expenses and/or limit our prospects for growth. therefore, even if our retrospective responsibility plan adequately safeguards us from the monetary impact of settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation, it may not be sufficient to insulate us from all potential adverse consequences of settlements of, and judgments in, the covered litigation. if the settlements of visa u.s.a. and visa international currency conversion cases are not ultimately approved and we are unsuccessful in any of the various lawsuits relating to visa u.s.a. and visa international currency conversion practices, our business may be materially and adversely affected. visa u.s.a. and visa international are defendants in several state and federal lawsuits alleging that their currency conversion practices are or were deceptive, anti-competitive or otherwise unlawful. in particular, a trial judge in california found that the former currency conversion practices of visa u.s.a. and visa international were deceptive under california state law, and ordered visa u.s.a. and visa international to require their members to disclose the currency conversion process to cardholders in cardholder agreements, applications, solicitations and monthly billing statements. the judge also ordered unspecified restitution to credit card holders. the decision was reversed on appeal on the ground that the plaintiff lacked standing to pursue his claims. after the trial court decision, several putative class actions were filed in california state courts challenging visa u.s.a. and visa international currency conversion practices for credit and debit cards. a number of putative class actions relating to visa u.s.a. and visa international former currency conversion practices were also filed in federal court. the federal actions have been coordinated or consolidated in the u.s. 25 table of contents district court for the southern district of new york. the consolidated complaint alleges that the former currency conversion practices of visa u.s.a. and visa international violated federal antitrust laws. on july 20, 2006 and september 14, 2006, visa u.s.a. and visa international entered into agreements settling or otherwise disposing of the federal and state actions and related matters. pursuant to the settlement agreements, visa u.s.a. paid approximately $100 million as part of the defendants settlement fund for the federal actions and approximately $19 million to fund settlement of the california cases. the federal court has granted preliminary approval of the settlement agreements, but the settlement is subject to final approval by the court and resolution of all appeals. if final approval of the settlement agreements is not granted, all of the agreements resolving the federal and state actions will terminate. if that occurs, and we are unsuccessful in defending against some or all of these lawsuits, we may have to pay restitution and/or damages, and may be required to modify our currency conversion practices. the potential amount of damages and/or restitution could be substantial. in addition, although visa u.s.a. and visa international have substantially changed the practices that were at issue in these litigations, if the courts require further changes to our currency conversion and cross-border transaction practices, it could materially and adversely affect our business. see note 23 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. if we, visa u.s.a. or visa international is found liable in certain other lawsuits that have been brought against us or if we are found liable in other litigation to which we may become subject in the future, we may be forced to pay substantial damages and/or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues and profitability. in recent years, numerous civil actions and investigations have been filed or initiated against a competition, antitrust, consumer protection and other laws. these actions and investigations have been filed or initiated by a variety of different parties, including the u.s. department of justice, state attorneys general, merchants, consumers, competing card-issuing companies and other plaintiffs. examples of such claims, which are described more fully in note 23 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report, include the following: various state court actions based on a federal merchant class action lawsuit that visa u.s.a. settled in 2003, alleging unlawful tying of credit and debit card services, attempted monopolization and other state law competition claims; a case brought by the european commission against visa international and visa europe alleging a breach of european competition law related to a visa membership rule; two state unfair competition law claims, one against visa u.s.a. and visa international based in part on visa u.s.a. past practice of prohibiting member financial institutions from issuing certain competing payment cards, and another against visa u.s.a. and visa international alleging failure to inform cardholders of a security breach in a timely manner; a promissory estoppel and misrepresentation claim against visa u.s.a. and visa international regarding deferment of a deadline for laboratory certification of atm devices meeting heightened data encryption standards; a trademark infringement claim against visa international in venezuela in connection with the visa vale product; a patent infringement claim against visa u.s.a. regarding prepaid card products; three civil investigative demands issued by the antitrust division of the doj to visa u.s.a., concerning (i) visa u.s.a. agreements with financial institutions that issue visa debit cards, (ii) termination and waiver provisions in certain visa u.s.a. issuer agreements, and (iii) certain visa u.s.a. rules relating to merchant acceptance practices; and 26 table of contents a putative class action against visa u.s.a. claiming unjust enrichment and/or intentional misrepresentation in connection with alleged fees assessed on the state tax portion of sales transactions. private plaintiffs often seek class action certification in cases against us, particularly in cases involving merchants and consumers, due to the size and scope of our business and the large number of parties that are involved in our payment system. although our retrospective responsibility plan is intended to address potential monetary liabilities arising from the covered litigation as described in note 5 re trospective responsibility plan and note 23 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report, the plan does not cover other litigation that we currently face, and will not cover litigation, including state court litigation, that we may face in the future, except for cases that include claims for damages relating to the period prior to our initial public offering that are transferred for pre-trial proceedings or otherwise included in the interchange litigation. we cannot predict whether or to what extent we will be subject to litigation liability that is not covered by our retrospective responsibility plan. if we are unsuccessful in our defense against any of the proceedings described above or in any future proceedings, we may be forced to pay substantial damages and/or change our business practices or our pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from other companies suggesting that we may be infringing a pre-existing patent or that we need to license use of their patents to avoid infringement. such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us. holders of patents may pursue claims against us in the future if they believe their patents are being infringed by our product or service offerings. based on our experience with such claims to date, we do not believe that any such claims would prevent us from continuing to operate our payments system or market any of our significant core products and services in substantially the same or equivalent manner as we have to date. limitations on our business and other penalties resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years as a result of litigation and litigation settlements. for example, as a result of the june 2003 settlement of a u.s. merchant lawsuit against visa u.s.a., merchants are able to reject visa consumer debit cards in the united states while still accepting other visa-branded cards, and vice versa. in addition, following the final judgment entered in the litigation, the doj brought against visa u.s.a. and visa international in 1998, as of october 2004, members of visa u.s.a. may issue certain competing payment cards. since this final judgment, several members of visa u.s.a. have begun to issue, or have announced that they will issue, american express or discover-branded cards. see note 23 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. in addition, pursuant to a court order, certain visa u.s.a. debit issuers may be able to terminate some parts of their agreements with us. visa u.s.a. bylaws provided that a settlement service fee was to be paid by certain visa u.s.a. members that shifted a substantial portion of their offline debit card volume to another debit brand unless that shift was to the american express or discover brands. in june 2007, a federal court ruled that the settlement service fee violated the final judgment entered in the case the doj brought against visa u.s.a., visa international and mastercard in 1998. see note 23 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. as a remedy, the court ordered visa u.s.a. to repeal the settlement service fee bylaw. further, any visa u.s.a. debit issuer subject to the settlement service fee prior to its repeal that entered into an agreement with visa u.s.a. that includes offline debit issuance on or after june 20, 2003, is now permitted to terminate that agreement, provided that the issuer has entered into an agreement to issue 27 table of contents mastercard-branded debit cards and has repaid to visa u.s.a. any unearned benefits or financial incentives under its visa u.s.a. agreement. the settlement service fee bylaw was rescinded as of the effective date of the order. see note 23 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. the developments discussed above and any future limitations on our business resulting from settlements of, or judgments in, pending or potential litigation could limit the fees we charge and reduce our payments volume, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. if we are partially or wholly unable to realize the benefit of our deferred tax assets related to our litigation expenses incurred in connection with the covered litigation, our financial results and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. our fiscal 2008 statement of operations reflects a litigation provision of $1.5 billion including an additional provision of $1.1 billion related to settlement of the discover litigation and management liability estimate for other matters under the guidelines of sfas no. 5. for tax purposes, the deduction related to these matters is deferred until the payments are made and thus the company established deferred tax assets of $857 million at september 30, 2008 related to these and other litigation payments, which is net of a reserve to reflect our best estimate of the amount of the benefit to be realized. although we believe that the estimates and judgments we made in establishing our deferred tax asset and related reserves are reasonable, some or all of these judgments are subject to review by the taxing authorities. if one or more of the taxing authorities were to successfully challenge our right to realize some or all of the tax benefit we have recorded and we were unable to realize this benefit, it could have a material and adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. the payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may result in costly new compliance burdens being imposed on us and our customers and lead to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues. we and our customers are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in many countries in which our cards are used. regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. examples of such regulation include: anti-money laundering regulation. most jurisdictions in which we and our customers operate have implemented, amended or have pending anti-money laundering regulations, such as the u.s.a. patriot act, which requires the creation and implementation of comprehensive anti-money laundering programs. u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control regulation. visa u.s.a. and visa international are subject to regulations imposed by the u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control, or ofac. ofac restricts financial dealings with cuba, iran, myanmar and sudan, as well as financial dealings with certain restricted parties, such as identified money laundering fronts for terrorists or narcotics traffickers. while we prohibit financial institutions that are domiciled in those countries or are restricted parties from being visa members, many visa international members are non-u.s. financial institutions, and thus are not subject to ofac restrictions. accordingly, our payments system may be used for transactions in or involving countries or parties subject to ofac-administered sanctions. regulation of the price of credit . in recent years, legislation, regulations or other legal requirements affecting credit cards have been adopted in a number of the jurisdictions in which our cards are used. for example, in the united states, congress and the federal 28 table of contents banking agencies have increased their scrutiny of the disclosure and billing practices of credit card issuers. the federal reserve board has proposed significant changes to regulation aa and z, under the federal truth in lending act, which, if implemented, could have a significant affect on the advertising, disclosure and billing practices of card issuers. proposed or other changes to the laws and or regulations affecting credit card operations and pricing could increase the costs of card issuance and/or decrease the flexibility of card issuers to charge interest rates and fees on credit card accounts. any such unfavorable regulation of the practices of card issuers could result in a decrease in our payments volume and revenues. regulation of internet transactions. many jurisdictions in which we and our customers operate are considering, or are expected to consider, legislation concerning internet transactions, and in particular with regard to choice of law, the legality of certain e-commerce transactions, the collection of applicable taxes and copyright and trademark infringement. such legislation may make it less desirable or more costly to complete internet transactions using our cards. safety and soundness regulation. in recent years, federal banking regulators in the united states have adopted a series of regulatory measures intended to require more conservative accounting, greater risk management and higher capital requirements for bank credit card activities, which may make becoming an issuer of our cards less attractive. increased regulatory focus in connection with the matters discussed above may increase our costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause a reduction in payments volume, which could materially adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. existing and proposed regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security could decrease the number of payment cards issued, our payments volume and revenues. we and our customers are subject to regulations related to privacy and data use and security in the jurisdictions in which we do business, and we could be adversely affected by these regulations. for example, in the united states, we and our customers are subject to the banking regulators information safeguard rules and the federal trade commission rules under the gramm-leach-bliley act. the rules require that we and our customers develop, implement and maintain written, comprehensive information security programs containing safeguards that are appropriate to our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. in recent years, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach. in the united states, a number of bills have been introduced in congress and there have been several congressional hearings to address these issues. congress is considering data security/data breach legislation which, if implemented, could affect our customers and us. in addition, a number of u.s. states have enacted security breach legislation requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach, and several other states are considering similar legislation. regulation of privacy, data use and security may materially increase our costs and our customers costs and may decrease the number of our cards that our customers issue, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. our failure, or the failure of our customers, to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions and damage to our global reputation and our brand. 29 table of contents government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in certain countries have acted, or could act, to provide resources or protection to selected national payment card providers or national payment processing providers to support domestic competitors or to displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. for example, our customers in china are not permitted to issue our cards for domestic use in china. governments in certain other countries have considered similar restrictions from time to time. our efforts to effect change in countries where our access to the domestic payments segment is limited may not be successful, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. if government regulators determine that we are a systemically important payments system, we may have to change our settlement procedures or other operations, which could make it more costly to operate our business and reduce our operational flexibility. a number of international initiatives are underway to maintain financial stability by strengthening financial infrastructure. the committee on payment and settlement systems of the central banks of the group of ten countries has developed a set of core principles for systemically important payment systems. government regulators in the united states or elsewhere may determine that we are a systemically important payments system and impose settlement risk management requirements on us, including new settlement procedures or other operational rules to address credit and operational risks or new criteria for member participation and merchant access to our payments system. any of these developments could make it more costly to operate our business. our framework agreement with visa europe includes indemnity obligations that could expose us to significant liabilities. under our framework agreement with visa europe, we are required to indemnify visa europe for losses resulting from any claims in the united states or anywhere else outside of visa europe region arising from our or their activities that relate to our payments business or the payments business of visa europe. this obligation applies whether or not we or any of our related parties or agents participated in the actions that gave rise to such claims. such an obligation could expose us to significant liabilities for activities over which we have little or no control. these liabilities would not be covered by our retrospective responsibility plan. business risks we face intense competitive pressure on customer pricing, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we generate revenues from fees we charge our customers that are based on payments volume, transaction messages processed and various other services we provide. in order to increase payments volume, enter new market segments and expand our card base, we offer incentives to customers, such as up-front cash payments, fee discounts, credits, performance-based growth incentives, marketing support payments and other support, such as marketing consulting and market research studies. over the past several years, we have increased our use of incentives such as up-front cash payments and fee discounts in many countries, including the united states. in order to stay competitive, we may have to continue to increase our use of incentives. such pricing pressure may make the provision of certain products and services less profitable or unprofitable and materially and adversely affect our operating revenues and profitability. to the extent that we continue to increase incentives to our customers, we 30 table of contents will need to further increase payments volume or the amount of services we provide in order to benefit incrementally from such arrangements and to increase revenues and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so. in addition, we enter into long-term contracts with certain customers, and continued pressure on fees could prevent us from entering into such agreements in the future on terms that we consider favorable or may require us to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships. increased pricing pressure also enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives, and we may not succeed in these efforts. our operating results may suffer because of intense competition in the global payments industry. the global payments industry is intensely competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including cash, checks and electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house payments. in addition, our payment programs compete against the card- based payments systems of our competitors, such as mastercard, american express, discover and private-label cards issued by merchants. some of our competitors may develop substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer, may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have or may develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements. our competitors may also introduce more innovative programs and services than ours. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers, without involving intermediaries. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from their business models. for example, operators of closed-loop payments systems tend to have greater control over consumer and merchant customer service than operators of open-loop multi-party payments systems such as ours, in which we must rely on our issuing and acquiring financial institution customers. in addition, these competitors have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of open-loop multi-party payments systems such as ours. we also expect that there may be changes in the competitive landscape in the future, including: competitors, customers and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added services we currently provide to support our transaction processing. for example, in recent years some of our competitors and members have begun to compete with our currency conversion services by providing dynamic currency conversion services. dynamic currency conversion is a service offered or facilitated by a merchant or processor that allows a cardholder to choose to have a transaction converted from the merchant currency into the cardholder billing currency at the point of sale in real-time, thereby bypassing our currency conversion processes. dynamic currency conversion services could, if significant numbers of cardholders choose to use them, replace our own currency conversion processing services or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these services. if we process fewer transactions or are forced to change our pricing or practices for our currency conversion processing because of competing dynamic currency conversion services or otherwise, our revenues may be materially and adversely affected. parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position in the payments value chain. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. 31 table of contents participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business propositions or create new payment services that compete with our services. competition from alternative types of payment services, such as online payment services and services that permit direct debit of consumer checking accounts or ach payments, may increase. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats, could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. our operating revenues would decline significantly if we lost one or more of our largest customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. a significant portion of our operating revenues are concentrated among our largest customers. our operating revenues from our five largest customers represented approximately $1.6 billion, or 26%, of our operating revenue for fiscal 2008 and $1.2 billion, or 23%, and $938 million, or 24%, of our pro forma operating revenues for fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. in addition, our largest customer, jpmorgan chase, accounted for $501 million, or 8%, of our operating revenue for fiscal 2008, and $454 million, or 9%, and $408 million, or 10%, of our pro forma operating revenues for fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. most of our larger customer relationships (including our customer relationships with jpmorgan chase and bank of america) are not exclusive and in certain circumstances (including, in some cases, on relatively short notice) may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. loss of business from any of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. consolidation of the banking industry could result in our losing business and may create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. over the last several years, the banking industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and, based on current economic conditions, we have seen this trend accelerate. we expect this trend to continue in the future. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in one of our largest customers being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a competitor, resulting in a substantial loss of business. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with or acquire one of our competitors, and any such transaction could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. examples of recent consolidations involve financial institutions with substantial visa card portfolios: the acquisition of assets of washington mutual bank by jp morgan chase, and wachovia plans to merge with wells fargo. continued consolidation in the banking industry would also reduce the overall number of our customers and potential customers and could increase the bargaining power of our remaining customers and potential customers. this consolidation could lead financial institutions to seek greater pricing discounts or other incentives with us. in addition, consolidation could prompt our existing customers to seek to renegotiate their pricing agreements with us to obtain more favorable terms. we may also be adversely impacted by price compression should one of our financial institution customers absorb another financial institution and qualify for higher volume-based discounts on the combined volumes of the merged business. pressure on the fees we charge our customers caused by such consolidation could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. in addition, the current economic environment could lead some customers to curtail or postpone near-term investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines, or take other actions which impact adversely the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these customers. 32 table of contents merchants are pursuing litigation and supporting regulatory proceedings relating to the costs associated with payment card acceptance and are negotiating incentive arrangements, including pricing discounts, all of which may increase our costs and materially and adversely affect our profitability. we rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our customers to maintain and expand the acceptance of our payment cards. we believe that consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants that are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry. for instance, some large merchants are bringing lawsuits against us with regard to, or advocating regulation of, interchange fees, which may represent a significant cost that merchants pay to accept payment cards. the emphasis merchants are placing on the costs associated with payment card acceptance may lead to additional regulation and litigation, which would not be covered by our retrospective responsibility plan and which could impair our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. we, along with our customers, negotiate pricing discounts and other incentive arrangements with certain large merchants to increase acceptance of our payment cards. if merchants continue to consolidate, we and our customers may have to increase the incentives provided to certain larger merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. certain financial institutions have exclusive, or near exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. certain financial institutions have long-standing exclusive, or near exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do material amounts of business with them in order to increase our revenues. in addition, these financial institutions may be more successful and may grow faster than the financial institutions that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we depend significantly on our relationships with our customers and other third parties to deliver services and manage our payments system. as a result, our success and reputation are significantly dependent on the success of our customers and the quality of the services they provide. if we are unable to maintain those relationships, or if third parties on which we depend fail to deliver services on our behalf, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on relationships with our customers and their relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. in addition, we do not generally solicit merchants to accept our cards and we do not establish the discount rates that merchants are charged for card acceptance, which are responsibilities of acquirers. as a result, the success of our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our customers and the strength of our relationships with them. outside of the united states and certain other countries, most domestic (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using our payment cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors without involving our processing systems. because we do not provide domestic transaction processing services in these countries, do not generally have direct relationships with merchants and never have direct relationships with cardholders, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage the processing of transactions involving our 33 table of contents cards. our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards carrying our brands in many countries may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to ensure the quality of the services supporting our brand. in addition, we depend on third parties to provide various services on our behalf and to the extent that any third party vendors fail to deliver services, our business and reputation could be impaired. our brands and reputation are key assets of our business and may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain consumer cardholders and corporate clients to visa-branded products is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our company and our industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as predatory, which may materially and adversely impact our business. adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. global economic, political and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending and cross-border travel, which may materially and adversely impact our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. for example, a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions, particularly in the united states and the asia-pacific region, where approximately 59% and 17%, respectively, of our operating revenues were generated in fiscal 2008, and 66% and 14%, respectively, of our pro forma revenues were generated for fiscal 2007 and, 71% and 12%, respectively, of our pro forma revenues were generated for fiscal 2006, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate, may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards carrying our brands. in addition, the current economic environment could lead some customers to curtail or postpone near-term investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines, or take other actions which impact adversely the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these customers. a significant portion of the revenues we earn outside the united states results from cross-border business and leisure travel, which may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic and other conditions, including the threat of terrorism and outbreak of diseases, such as sars and avian flu. in particular, revenues from processing foreign currency transactions for our customers fluctuate with cross-border travel and our customers need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. in addition, as we are principally domiciled in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. as a guarantor of certain obligations of visa members, we are exposed to risk of loss or insolvency if any member fails to fund its settlement obligations. we indemnify visa members for any settlement loss suffered due to the failure of a member to fund its daily settlement obligations. in certain instances, we may indemnify members even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. this indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. the term and amount of the indemnification are unlimited. 34 table of contents while we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by any of the largest visa members, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our largest members or several of the smaller visa members, or systemic operational failures that last for more than a single day, may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the amount of such payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. settlement at risk (or exposure) is estimated using the average daily volumes during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, and the total balance for outstanding travelers cheques. our estimated settlement exposure, after consideration of collateral that we require certain financial institutions to post, amounted to approximately $34.8 billion at october 1, 2008. some visa members are composed of groups of financial institutions. some of these members have elected to limit their responsibility for settlement losses arising from the failure of their constituent financial institutions in exchange for managing their constituent financial institutions in accordance with our credit risk policy. to the extent that any settlement failure resulting from a constituent financial institution exceeds the limits established by our credit risk policy, we would have to absorb the cost of such settlement failure, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flow. if our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions efficiently, our revenues or operating results and the perception of our brands could be materially and adversely affected. our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions or degradation as a result of processing or other technology malfunction, fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism or accident. our visibility in the global payments industry may attract terrorists and hackers to conduct physical or computer-based attacks, leading to an interruption in service, increased costs or the compromise of data security. additionally, we rely on service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. if a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands reliability and materially reduce our revenues or profitability. if we are not able to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in the payments industry to provide customers, merchants and cardholders with new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, which could reduce our revenues and income. the payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), e-commerce and mobile commerce, among others. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card products and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards, by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes or by intellectual property rights of third parties. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. 35 table of contents account data breaches involving card data stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenues. we and our customers, merchants and other third parties store cardholder account information in connection with our payment cards. in addition, our customers may use third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving our cards, reputational damage and lead to claims against us. for example, in january 2007, tjx companies, inc., a large retailer with stores in the united states, canada and the united kingdom, disclosed a significant security breach in connection with card and account information, which exposed tens of millions of payment cards issued under our brands and our competitors brands to fraudulent use. if we are sued in connection with any data security breach, we could be involved in protracted litigation. if unsuccessful in defending such lawsuits, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. in addition, any reputational damage resulting from an account data breach at one of our customers, merchants or other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which could have a material adverse impact on our payments volume, revenues and future growth prospects. finally, any data security breach could result in additional regulation, which could materially increase our costs. an increase in fraudulent and other illegal activity involving our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft. as outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. if fraud levels involving our cards were to rise, it could lead to reputational damage to our brands, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards, or to greater regulation, which could increase our compliance costs. visa europe payments system operations are becoming increasingly independent from ours, and if we are unable to maintain seamless interaction of our respective systems, our business and the global perception of the visa brand could be impaired. visa europe currently has a regionally controlled processing platform. in june 2006, visa europe began operating an authorization system that is separate from ours and visa europe plans to begin operating a transaction clearing and settlement system that is separate from ours. because we and visa europe have independent processing platforms, interoperability must be maintained. visa europe authorization system has experienced interruptions in service, and it could experience further interruptions in the future. to the extent that system disruptions occur, it may affect our cardholders who are traveling in visa europe region and impair our reputation. the increasingly independent payments system operations of visa europe could present certain challenges to our business because differences between the two processing systems may make it more difficult to maintain the interoperability of our respective systems. in addition, under the framework agreement, we are restricted from requiring visa europe to implement certain changes that we may deem important unless we agree to pay for the implementation costs. any of the foregoing could result in a loss of payments volume or of customers or could materially increase our costs. adverse currency fluctuations could decrease revenues and increase expenses. we conduct business globally in many foreign currencies, but report our financial results in u.s. dollars. we are therefore exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates because depreciation of non-u.s. currencies against the u.s. dollar reduces the u.s. dollar value of the non- 36 table of contents u.s. dollar denominated revenues that we recognize and appreciation of non-u.s. currencies against the u.s. dollar increases the u.s. dollar value of expenses that we incur that are denominated in those foreign currencies. we enter into foreign currency hedging contracts to reduce the effect of adverse changes in the value of a limited number of foreign currencies and for a limited period of time (typically up to one year). some of our financial incentives to customers are recorded using estimates of our customers performance. material changes in our customers performance compared to our estimates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. in certain instances, we offer our customers financial incentives, which are typically tied to their payments volume or transaction messages processed, often under particular programs. these financial incentives are typically recorded as a reduction of revenues. we generally make estimates of our customers performance under these programs (sometimes over several years) in order to derive our estimates of the financial incentives that we will pay them. the reduction of revenues that we record each quarter under volume and support agreements is based on these estimates. material changes in our customers performance compared to estimates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. for example, if a customer performs better than expected, we may be required to reduce future period revenues to account for the fact that we did not reduce revenues enough in prior periods. on the other hand, if a customer performs worse than expected, we may conclude that we reduced revenues by too much in previous periods. we have significant contingent liabilities for settlement payment of all issued and outstanding travelers cheques. at september 30, 2008, we had approximately $830 million in contingent liabilities for settlement payment of all issued and outstanding travelers cheques. approximately 35% of these travelers cheques were issued outside of the united states by a single issuer. while these obligations are supported in part by a bank guarantee, if the issuer were to fail to pay, we would be obligated to fund partial settlement of presented travelers cheques. risks related to our structure and organization the recent change to our governance structure could have a material adverse effect on our business relationships with our customers. prior to our reorganization in october 2007, a number of visa key members had officers who also served on the boards of directors of visa u.s.a., visa international, visa canada or the regional boards of directors of the unincorporated regions of visa ap, visa lac and visa cemea. as a result of our reorganization, the regional boards of directors of the unincorporated regions have been eliminated, and the boards of directors of visa u.s.a. and visa canada are now comprised of management and are largely administrative in nature. in addition, although our regions are represented on our board by six of our 17 directors, the holders of our class b and class c common stock are not otherwise entitled to vote in the election of directors. as a result, the role of member-nominated and member-elected directors in our corporate governance has been reduced as a result of the reorganization. these changes could have a detrimental effect on our business relationships with members associated with a particular region. in addition, if a member that had an officer who also served on one of the regional boards of directors does not have an officer who currently serves on our board of directors, our business relationship with that member could suffer. a significant loss of revenues or payments volume attributable to such members could have a material adverse effect on our business. 37 table of contents our relationship with visa europe is governed by our framework agreement, which gives visa europe very broad rights to operate the visa business in visa europe region. we have limited ability to control their operations and limited recourse in the event of a breach by visa europe. historically, visa europe had been subject to the same global operating rules as visa u.s.a., visa international and visa canada. these global operating rules regulate, among other things, interoperability of payment processing, brand maintenance and investment, standards for products and services, risk management, disputes between members and acceptance standards for merchants. after the reorganization, visa europe, unlike visa u.s.a., visa international and visa canada, did not become our subsidiary. as a result, visa europe is no longer subject to the same global operating rules as our subsidiaries and customers. our relationship with visa europe is now governed by a framework agreement and a subset of operating rules that we have agreed to with visa europe and that we have limited ability to change in the future. although the agreement seeks to ensure that visa europe operates in a manner that is acceptable to us, the contractual arrangement is untested and may not be effective in achieving this result. visa europe is responsible for designing its own plans to ensure that it is in compliance with the global rules, interoperability, integrity of the system and trademark usage. while we have the right to request changes to these plans, we have no right to audit their compliance with these requirements or examine their books and records in connection with the framework agreement or the put option. the agreement provides visa europe with very broad latitude to operate the visa business and use our brands and technology within visa europe region and provides us limited controls over the operation of the visa business in their region. visa europe is not required to spend any minimum amount promoting and building the visa brand in its region, and the strength of the visa global brand is contingent, in part, on the efforts of visa europe to maintain product and service recognition and quality in europe. visa europe may develop, among other things, new brands, payment processing characteristics, products, services, risk management standards, processes for resolving disputes among its members or merchant acceptance profiles that are inconsistent with the operating rules that we apply in the rest of the world. if we want to change a global rule or require visa europe to implement certain changes that would not have a positive return for visa europe and its members, then visa europe is not required to implement such rule or change unless we agree to pay for the implementation costs and expenses that visa europe and its members will incur as a consequence of the implementation to the extent necessary to return visa europe and its members to a neutral financial condition. we cannot terminate the framework agreement even in the event of visa europe material uncured breach, and we can only exercise our call right to purchase visa europe under extremely limited circumstances. our remedies under this agreement, if visa europe fails to meet its obligations, are limited. our inability to terminate and other features of the licenses granted under the agreement may also raise issues concerning the characterization of the licenses for purposes of determining our tax treatment with respect to entering into the licenses and receiving payments thereunder. any inconsistency in the payment processing services and products that we are able to provide could negatively affect cardholders from visa europe using cards in our regions or our cardholders using cards in visa europe region. we have granted to visa europe the right to require us to purchase all of the outstanding shares of visa europe capital stock. if visa europe exercises this option, we will incur a substantial financial obligation. in addition, we are required to record any change in the fair value of the put option on a quarterly basis, which will impact our net income. we have granted visa europe a put option, which, if exercised, will require us to purchase all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of visa europe from its members. visa europe may exercise the put option at any time following march 25, 2009. the purchase price of the visa europe shares 38 table of contents under the put option is based upon a formula that, subject to certain adjustments, applies the 12-month forward price-to-earnings multiple applicable to our common stock at the time the option is exercised to visa europe projected sustainable adjusted net operating income for the same 12-month period. upon exercise of the put option, we will be obligated, subject only to regulatory approvals and other limited conditions, to pay the purchase price within 285 days in cash or, at our option, with a combination of cash and shares of our publicly tradable common stock. the portion of the purchase price we will be able to pay in stock will initially be limited to the percentage of our class c (series i) common stock that at the settlement date remains subject to the transfer restrictions. we must pay the purchase price in cash, however, if the settlement of the put option occurs after march 25, 2011. we will incur a substantial financial obligation if visa europe exercises the put option. the amount of that potential obligation could vary dramatically based on, among other things, the 12-month projected sustainable net operating income of visa europe, the allocation of cost synergies, the trading price of our class a common stock, and our 12-month forward price-to-earnings multiple, in each case, as determined at the time the put option is exercised. we are not currently able to estimate the amount of this obligation due to the nature and number of factors involved and the range of important assumptions that would be required. however, depending upon visa europe level of sustainable profitability and/or our 12-month forward price-to-earnings multiple at the time of any exercise of the option, the amount of this obligation could be several billion dollars or more. we may need to obtain third-party financing, either by borrowing funds or undertaking a subsequent equity offering, in order to meet our obligation. this financing may not be available to us in a sufficient amount within the required 285-day period or on terms that we deem to be reasonable. the payment of part of the exercise price in stock would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. moreover, the acquisition of visa europe following an exercise of the put option would require us to integrate the operations of visa europe into our business, which could divert the time and attention of senior management. the fair value of the put option at september 30, 2008 was $346 million. we are required to record any change in the fair value of the put option on a quarterly basis. these adjustments will be recorded through our consolidated statements of operations, which will therefore impact our reported net income and earnings per share. such quarterly adjustments and their resulting impact on our reported statements of operations could be significant. the existence of these charges could adversely affect our ability to raise capital and/or the price at which we can raise capital. see item 9b other information. our reorganization requires us to make significant changes to our culture and business operations. if we fail to make this transition successfully, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our reorganization has required broad and significant changes to our culture and operations. historically, the primary goal of visa u.s.a., visa international and visa canada has not been to maximize profit for these entities, but rather to deliver benefits to their members and enhance member opportunity and revenue. as a result of the reorganization, we now must operate our business in a way that maximizes long-term stockholder value. many of our employees have limited experience operating in a profit-maximizing business environment. in addition, the visa enterprise historically has been operated under a decentralized regional structure, and each region has had substantial autonomy in its own business strategies and decisions. our reorganization has resulted in a more centralized corporate governance structure in which our board of directors exerts centralized management control. we face significant challenges integrating the operations of the different regions. we may also be unable to retain and attract key employees, and we may not realize the cost savings and operational efficiencies that we currently expect. this transition will be subject to risks, expenses and difficulties that we cannot predict and may not be capable of handling in an efficient and timely manner. 39 table of contents any acquisitions that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. we may make strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies. if so, we may not be able to successfully finance or integrate any such businesses, products or technologies. furthermore, the integration of any acquisition may divert management time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenues. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. while we from time to time evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions. future sales of our class a common stock could depress the market price of our class a common stock. the market price of our class a common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur. these sales, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our class a common stock and might make it more difficult for us or holders of our common stock to sell equity securities in the future. as of october 31, 2008, we had 446,503,244 outstanding shares of class a common stock, not including 1,247,719 shares of restricted stock that we granted to certain of our directors and employees. except for any shares acquired by our affiliates, as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act, any of these shares may be resold immediately in the public market. if the litigation committee so requests in order to increase the size of the escrow account, we will conduct follow-on offerings of our class a common stock. in addition, as of october 31, 2008, our existing stockholders held 245,513,385 shares of class b common stock (excludes class b common stock held by visa u.s.a.) and 151,596,308 shares of class c common stock (excludes class c common stock held by visa international service association). subject to limited exceptions, the class b common stock is not transferable until march 25, 2011 or the date on which all of the covered litigation has been finally resolved. subject to limited exceptions, the class c common stock is not transferable until march 25, 2011. after the termination of these transfer restrictions, the class b and class c common stock will only be convertible into class a common stock upon transfer to a person that was not, immediately after the october 2007 reorganization, a visa member. upon such transfer, each share of class b or class c common stock will automatically convert into class a common stock based on the applicable conversion rate in effect at the time of such transfer. all of the class a common stock issuable upon such conversion will be freely tradable without restriction or registration under the securities act by persons other than our affiliates. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as the factors listed below, could affect the market price of our common stock: quarterly variations in our results of operations or the results of operations of our competitors or those of visa europe; changes in earning estimates, investors perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts earning estimates; the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; announcements related to litigation; 40 table of contents potential acquisitions by us of other companies, including the exercise of the put option requiring us to purchase all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of visa europe from its members; developments in our industry; and general economic, market and political conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. the u.s. internal revenue service may treat a portion of our common stock received by a member of visa international or visa u.s.a. as taxable income. based on the opinion of our special tax counsel, we believe that, subject to the assumptions, qualifications and limitations contained in such opinion, we, the members of visa international and the members of visa u.s.a. will not recognize any gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes in connection with the reorganization and the true-up, except that, as to a portion of any visa inc. stock received in connection with the true-up, a stockholder of visa inc. may recognize imputed interest income. if a stockholder is not a united states person for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we may be required to withhold u.s. federal income tax at a rate of 30% of the imputed interest or, if applicable, at a lower treaty rate. notwithstanding the foregoing, the opinion of our special tax counsel does not apply to the extent that the fair market value of our common stock received by a member of visa international or by a member of visa u.s.a. pursuant to the reorganization and the true-up (whether received on the date of closing of the reorganization or thereafter) is different from the fair market value of such member equity interest in visa international or visa u.s.a., as the case may be, immediately before the commencement of the reorganization. our special tax counsel is unable to opine as to such difference because, in transactions similar to the reorganization and the true-up, treatment as an exchange described in section 351 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, generally applies only to the extent that a taxpayer transfers property to a corporation in exchange for stock having the same fair market value. the irs might therefore take the position that the difference (whether received on the date of closing of the reorganization or thereafter), in the case of an excess of value received over value surrendered, should not be treated for u.s. federal income tax purposes as having been received in exchange for property. as a result, a member of visa international or a member of visa u.s.a. could be required to recognize income, but only to the extent of the excess or shortfall of value received over value surrendered. the shares of class b common stock that are retained by members of visa u.s.a. will be subject to dilution as a result of the establishment of the escrow account and any follow-on offerings of our class a common stock, the proceeds of which will be used to fund additional amounts into the escrow account necessary to resolve the covered litigation. the shares of class b common stock that are retained by visa u.s.a. members and that are not redeemed out of the proceeds of the initial public offering are subject to dilution to the extent of the initial amount of the escrow account. this dilution of the shares of class b common stock will be accomplished through an adjustment to the conversion rate of the shares of class b common stock. these shares will not be able to be converted into shares of class a common stock or, subject to limited exceptions, transferred until the later of march 25, 2011 or the final resolution of the covered litigation. the shares of class c common stock, which are held by members other than the visa u.s.a. members, are not subject to this dilutive adjustment. at the request of the litigation committee, we expect to conduct follow-on offerings of our shares of class a common stock, which we refer to as loss shares, if the litigation committee deems it desirable to increase the escrow account. the proceeds from the sale of loss shares would then be deposited in the escrow account, and the shares of class b common stock would be subject to additional dilution to the extent of the loss shares through a 41 table of contents concurrent adjustment to the conversion rate of the class b common stock. because the voting power of the class b and class c common stock, and the entitlement of the holders of class b common stock and class c common stock to participate in dividends or distributions upon a liquidation or winding up of visa inc. is determined on an as-converted basis, based upon the number of shares of class a common stock into which the class b or class c common stock would be converted at the time of the vote, dividend or distribution, as applicable, the adjustment to the conversion rate applicable to the class b common stock upon the issuance of loss shares will result in a dilution of the voting power of the class b common stock and the entitlement of holders of class b common stock to participate in dividends and distributions upon a liquidation of visa inc. if funds are released from escrow after the resolution of the litigation covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, holders of our class a common stock will suffer dilution as a result of a favorable adjustment to the conversion rate of our class b common stock. our retrospective responsibility plan provides that any amounts remaining in the escrow account after the date on which all of the covered litigation is resolved will be released back to us and the conversion rate of the class b common stock then outstanding will be adjusted in favor of the holders of the class b common stock through a formula based on the released escrow amount and the market price of our class a common stock. if any funds remain in the escrow account and are released back to us, the resulting adjustment in the conversion rate of the class b common stock will result in each share of class b common stock then outstanding becoming convertible into an increased number of shares of class a common stock, which in turn will result in dilution of the interest in visa inc. held by the holders of class a common stock. the amount of such dilution will depend on the amount, if any, of the funds released from the escrow account and the market price of our class a common stock at the time such funds are released. certain adjustments to the conversion rate of class b common stock in connection with the additional funding of the escrow account from which settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation will be payable may give rise to taxable deemed dividends for holders of class a common stock. at the request of the litigation committee, we will consummate one or more follow-on offerings of class a common stock, the net proceeds from which will be added to the escrow account from which settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation will be payable. in that case, there will be one or more adjustments, which we refer to as the potential adjustments, to the conversion rate of the class b common stock, which will result in a reduction in the total number of shares of class a common stock into which the class b common stock may be converted (when compared to the number of shares of class a common stock into which the class b common stock was convertible after any prior potential adjustment). the potential adjustments should not give rise to deemed distributions under section 305 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the code, to holders of our class a common stock on the grounds that such adjustments are not within the purview of section 305 of the code, because, for example, they are adjustments of the price paid by us to acquire property in our reorganization and, thus, are not, and do not have the effect of, distributions with respect to our class a common stock. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will not assert that any potential adjustments have the result of an increase in the proportionate interest in our earnings and profits or assets to holders of our class a common stock and, accordingly, should be treated as giving rise to deemed distributions under section 305 of the code with respect to such class a common stock. if such a position were successfully asserted, a holder of our class a common stock would, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, be deemed to receive a distribution from us in an amount equal to the value of the increase in such holder proportionate interest in our earnings and profits or assets 42 table of contents reflected in such holder class a common stock that would result from the decrease in the total number of shares of class a common stock into which the class b common stock may be converted after any potential adjustments, as the case may be. such a deemed distribution would be characterized as a dividend to such holder, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, to the extent the deemed distribution is treated as paid out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined under u.s. federal income tax principles. any remaining, portion of such a deemed distribution will be treated first as a tax-free return of such holder adjusted tax basis in our class a common stock and thereafter as gain. we will take the position that the potential adjustments do not give rise to deemed distributions under section 305 of the code to holders of our class a common stock. the trading market for our class a common stock could be adversely affected because provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may limit the market-making ability of broker-dealers that are affiliated with visa members. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that no person that is a visa member or affiliated with a visa member will be permitted to beneficially own more than 5% of the aggregate outstanding class a common stock or certain other voting stock (or securities convertible or exchangeable into such stock) at any time, subject to a limited number of exceptions. this restriction may limit the ability of a broker-dealer that is affiliated with a visa member to act as a market-maker in our class a common stock, although this restriction will not prevent such a broker-dealer from executing trades on an agency basis on behalf of third parties. this restriction could adversely affect the trading market for the class a common stock. all shares of class a common stock acquired by a visa member, an affiliate of a visa member or a similar person will be converted automatically into class c common stock and, as a result, will generally not be transferable until march 25, 2011 and will lose substantially all its voting rights. all shares of common stock acquired by a visa member, an affiliate of a visa member or any person that is an operator, member or licensee of any general purpose payment card system that competes with us, or any affiliate of such a person, in each case to the extent, acting as a principal investor, will be converted automatically into class c common stock. under the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, class c common stock is not transferable (subject to exceptions, including transfers to other class c stockholders) until march 25, 2011, unless our board makes an exception to this transfer restriction. after this date has passed, the class c common stock will be convertible into class a common stock only if transferred to a person that was not, immediately after our october 2007 reorganization, a visa member, an affiliate of a visa member or any person that is an operator, member or licensee of any general purpose payment card system that competes with the company, or any affiliate of such a person. upon such transfer, each share of class c common stock will convert into one share of class a common stock. until march 25, 2011, six of our 17 directors will be individuals elected or nominated by our regions. in addition, holders of our class b common stock and class c common stock have voting rights concerning certain significant corporate transactions, and their interests in our business may be different than those of holders of our class a common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, until march 25, 2011, six of our 17 directors will be individuals elected or nominated by our regions. although holders of class b and class c common stock do not have any right to vote on those matters on which stockholders generally are entitled to vote, such holders have the right to cast a number of votes equal to the number of shares of class b common stock or class c common stock, as applicable multiplied by the 43 table of contents applicable conversion rate on certain significant transactions enumerated in the amended and restated certificate of incorporation, such as a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business or any other vote required by law. the holders of the class b common stock and class c common stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class a common stock or their interests may otherwise conflict with those of the holders of class a common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a takeover attempt or a change in control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law could delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. except for limited exceptions, no person may own more than 15% of our total outstanding shares on an as-converted basis or more than 15% of any class or series of our common stock, unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares. in addition, except for common stock issued to a member in connection with the reorganization, or shares issuable on conversion of such common stock, shares held by a member, a competitor, an affiliate or member of a competitor may not exceed 5% of any class of common stock. in addition: our board of directors is divided into three classes, with approximately one-third of our directors elected each year; six directors will be individuals elected or nominated by our regions until march 25, 2011; our independent directors may be removed only upon the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the outstanding shares of class a common stock; our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors; holders of our class a common stock are not entitled to act by written consent; our stockholders must provide timely notice for any stockholder proposals and director nominations; we have adopted provisions that eliminate the personal liability of directors for monetary damages for actions taken as a director, with certain exceptions; in addition to certain class votes, a vote of 66 2 / 3 % or more of all of the outstanding shares of our common stock then entitled to vote is required to amend certain sections of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation; and we are governed by section 203 of the general corporation law of the state of delaware, or dgcl, as amended from time to time, which provides that a corporation shall not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the time that such stockholder became an interested stockholder, except under certain circumstances including upon receipt of prior board approval. our ability to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock in the future is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. in august 2008, we commenced payment of cash dividends on a quarterly basis on our class a, class b and class c common stock. any future payment of dividends will be dependent upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows. however, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. payment of future dividends, if any, would be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, covenants in our debt instruments and other factors that our board of directors deems 44 table of contents relevant. furthermore, no dividend may be declared or paid on any class or series of common stock unless an equivalent dividend is contemporaneously declared and paid on each other class and series of common stock. if, as a consequence of these various factors, we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to make payments of dividends on our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in item 7 management discussion and analysis of historical and pro forma financial condition and results of operations of this report. 95 table of contentsrisk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange reimbursement fees and related practices are subject to significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenues, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. interchange represents a transfer of value between the financial institutions participating in an open-loop payments network such as ours. on purchase transactions, interchange reimbursement fees are typically paid to issuers, which are the financial institutions that issue visa cards to cardholders, by acquirers, which are the financial institutions that offer visa network connectivity and payments acceptance services to merchants, in connection with transactions initiated with cards in our payments system. we set default interchange rates in the united states and other regions. in certain 14 table of contents jurisdictions, interchange rates are subject to government regulation. although we administer the collection and remittance of interchange reimbursement fees through the settlement process, we generally do not receive any portion of the interchange reimbursement fees. interchange reimbursement fees are often the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. we believe that interchange reimbursement fees are an important driver of system volume. as the volume of card-based payments has increased in recent years, interchange reimbursement fees, including our default interchange rates, have become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny worldwide. we believe that regulators are increasingly adopting a similar approach to interchange reimbursement fees, and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulatory approaches in other jurisdictions. interchange reimbursement fees and related practices have been the topic of recent committee hearings in the u.s. house of representatives and the u.s. senate, as well as conferences held by a number of u.s. federal reserve banks. in 2009, legislation concerning interchange, entitled the credit card fair fee act of 2009, was introduced in the u.s. house of representatives and referred to the house judiciary committee, but no further action has been taken on the measure. in 2008, a similar bill was reported out of the judiciary committee on a divided vote of 19-16, but was not taken up by the full u.s. house of representatives. in its current iteration, the legislation seeks to regulate interchange by allowing merchants to collectively seek to lower their interchange costs by exempting such action from the u.s. antitrust laws. the credit card fair fee act of 2009 also requires the u.s. department of justice, or doj, to oversee collective merchant negotiations with the company and its customer financial institutions (and separately with mastercard and its customer financial institutions) and report results of those negotiations back to the u.s. congress. a companion bill has been introduced in the u.s. senate judiciary committee, but there have not been any hearings on, or further movement of, the legislation. additional interchange legislation also has been introduced in the u.s. house of representatives that would prohibit specified electronic payment system network practices, including the imposition of additional charges on merchants and consumers for premium payment cards. the bill also directs the federal trade commission, or ftc, to prescribe regulations to ensure that the rules, terms, and conditions to which a merchant or consumer is subject under an agreement with an electronic payment system network are neither unfair nor deceptive to consumers and merchants, nor anticompetitive. there has, however, been no further action on or developments with respect to this legislation. the credit card accountability, responsibility, and disclosure act of 2009, or the credit card act, which was passed by both houses of the u.s. congress and became law, commissioned a study by the comptroller general of the united states of the extent to which interchange reimbursement fees are disclosed, the effect of fees and disclosure on merchants, the impact on consumer prices of interchange regulation in other jurisdictions, the relationship between interchange reimbursement fees and bank and merchant costs, and the role of interchange in promoting competition in the provision of payment cards. the resulting report was issued by the u.s. government accountability office in november 2009. individual state legislatures in the united states are also reviewing interchange reimbursement fees, and legislators in a number of states have proposed bills that purport to limit interchange reimbursement fees or merchant discount rates or to prohibit their application to portions of a transaction. in addition, the merchants payments coalition, a coalition of trade associations representing businesses that accept credit and debit cards, is mounting a challenge to interchange reimbursement fees in the united states by seeking additional legislative and regulatory intervention. interchange reimbursement fees and related practices also have been or are being reviewed by regulatory authorities and/or central banks in a number of other jurisdictions, including the european union, 15 table of contents australia, brazil, canada, colombia, honduras, new zealand, norway, singapore, south africa, united kingdom and venezuela. for example: the reserve bank of australia, or rba, has promulgated regulations under legislation enacted to give it powers over payments systems. one of the regulations controls the costs that can be considered in setting interchange reimbursement fees for visa credit and debit cards, but it does not regulate the merchant discount charged by any payment system, including competing closed-loop payments systems. in 2007, the rba commenced a review of these regulations and in september 2008 released its final conclusions. the rba has concluded that conditions have not yet been met for removal of interchange regulation and so will continue regulatory oversight of interchange. in june 2009, the canadian senate issued a report with the non-binding recommendations that debit interchange be set at zero for three years, that merchant surcharging be permitted in canada and that rules requiring that visa-accepting merchants honor all cards be modified. canada competition bureau has opened a civil inquiry to review interchange and certain visa rules, including those relating to surcharging and honoring cards. in addition, the canadian ministry of finance has proposed a voluntary code of conduct on related issues for payment card industry participants in canada. the european commission sent a statement of objections to visa europe, ltd., in april 2009, and to visa inc. and visa international in june 2009, alleging a breach of european competition law. the statement of objections addresses the honor all cards rule, the no-surcharge rule, and visa europe multilateral interchange reimbursement fees for cross-border payment transactions within the european economic area. in march 2009, the central bank of brazil issued a joint report which criticized, amongst other things, brazil current acquiring structure, visa no-surcharge rule, and the current system of setting interchange rates. see also note 21 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. regulatory actions such as these, even if not directed at us or if affecting a geographic region in which we do not operate, may nonetheless increase regulatory scrutiny of interchange reimbursement fees. if we cannot successfully defend our ability to set default interchange rates to maximize system volume, our payments system may become unattractive to issuers and/or acquirers. this could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our open-loop multi-party payments system, lower overall transaction volumes and/or make closed-loop payments systems or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could also begin to charge higher fees to consumers, thereby making our card programs less desirable and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability. acquirers could elect to charge higher merchant discount rates to merchants, regardless of the level of visa interchange, leading merchants not to accept cards for payment or to steer visa cardholders to alternate payment systems. in addition, issuers or acquirers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card programs by seeking incentives from us or a reduction in the fees that we charge. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. a finding of liability in the interchange litigation may result in substantial damages. since 2005, approximately 55 class action and individual complaints have been filed on behalf of merchants against us, visa u.s.a., visa international, mastercard and/or other defendants, including certain visa u.s.a. member financial institutions, which we refer to as the interchange litigation. among other antitrust allegations, the plaintiffs allege that visa setting of default interchange rates violated federal and state antitrust laws. the lawsuits have been transferred to a multidistrict litigation in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of new york. the class action complaints have been consolidated into a single amended class action complaint and the individual complaints are also being consolidated in the same multidistrict litigation. 16 table of contents the plaintiffs in the interchange litigation seek damages for alleged overcharges in merchant discount fees, as well as injunctive and other relief. the plaintiffs have not yet quantified the damages they seek, although several of the complaints allege that the plaintiffs expect that damages will range in the tens of billions of dollars. because these lawsuits were brought under the u.s. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages will be trebled and we, visa u.s.a. and/or visa international may be subject to joint and several liability among the defendants if liability is established, which could significantly magnify the effect of any adverse judgment. the interchange litigation is part of the covered litigation, which our retrospective responsibility plan is intended to address; however, the retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements of, or judgments in, the interchange litigation. failure to successfully defend or settle the interchange litigation would result in liability that to the extent not covered by our retrospective responsibility plan could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. in addition, even if our direct financial exposure were covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, settlements or judgments involving the multidistrict litigation could include restrictions on our ability to conduct business, which could increase our cost of doing business and limit our prospects for future growth. see item 1a risk factors our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements and judgments in the covered litigation and will not insulate us from other pending or future litigation and see note 21 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements and judgments in the covered litigation and will not insulate us from other pending or future litigation. our retrospective responsibility plan is intended to address monetary liabilities from settlements of, or final judgments in, the covered litigation described in note 21 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. the retrospective responsibility plan consists of several related mechanisms to fund settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation, including an escrow account funded with a portion of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and potential follow-on offerings of our class a common stock (or deposits of cash to the escrow account in lieu of such follow-on offerings), a loss sharing agreement, a judgment sharing agreement and the indemnification obligation of visa u.s.a. members pursuant to visa u.s.a. certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in accordance with their membership agreements. these mechanisms are unique and complex, and if we are prevented from using one or more of these mechanisms under our retrospective responsibility plan, we could have difficulty funding the payment of a settlement or final judgment against us in a covered litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. the retrospective responsibility plan does not address litigation other than the covered litigation that we currently face, including state court litigation relating to interchange, and will not cover litigation that we may face in the future, except for cases that include claims for damages relating to the period prior to our initial public offering that are transferred for pre-trial proceedings or otherwise included in the interchange litigation. in addition, our retrospective responsibility plan is designed to cover only the potential monetary liability from settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation. settlements and judgments in covered litigation may require us to modify the way we do business in the future, which could adversely affect our revenues, increase our expenses and/or limit our prospects for growth. therefore, even if our retrospective responsibility plan adequately safeguards us from the monetary impact of settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation, it may not be sufficient to insulate us from all potential adverse consequences of settlements of, and judgments in, the covered litigation. 17 table of contents if the settlements of visa u.s.a. and visa international currency conversion cases do not become final and we are unsuccessful in any of the various lawsuits relating to visa u.s.a. and visa international currency conversion practices, our business may be materially and adversely affected. visa u.s.a. and visa international are defendants in several state and federal lawsuits alleging that their currency conversion practices are or were deceptive, anti-competitive or otherwise unlawful. on july 20, 2006 and september 14, 2006, visa u.s.a. and visa international entered into agreements to settle or otherwise dispose of these matters. pursuant to the settlement agreements, visa u.s.a. paid approximately $100 million as part of the defendants settlement fund for the federal actions and approximately $19 million to fund settlement of the state cases. while the federal court has granted final approval of the settlement agreements, the settlements are subject to resolution of any appeals. if an appeal is filed and we are unsuccessful in that appellate proceeding, all of the agreements resolving the federal and state actions will terminate. if that occurs, and we are unsuccessful in defending against some or all of these lawsuits, we may have to pay restitution and/or damages, and may be required to modify our currency conversion practices. the potential amount of damages and/or restitution could be substantial. in addition, although visa u.s.a. and visa international have substantially changed the practices that were at issue in these litigations, if the courts require further changes to our currency conversion and cross-border transaction practices, it could materially and adversely affect our business. see note 21 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. if we, visa u.s.a. or visa international is found liable in certain other lawsuits that have been brought against us or if we are found liable in other litigation to which we may become subject in the future, we may be forced to pay substantial damages and/or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues and profitability. in recent years, numerous civil actions and investigations have been filed or initiated against visa alleging or seeking information as to alleged violations of competition/antitrust, consumer protection, intellectual property and other laws. these actions and investigations have been filed or initiated by a variety of different parties, including the doj, u.s. state attorneys general, merchants and consumers. examples of such claims are described more fully in note 21 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. in addition, in the united states, private plaintiffs often seek class action certification in cases against us, particularly in cases involving merchants and consumers, due to the size and scope of our business and the large number of parties involved in our payment system. we have also received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from other companies suggesting that we may be infringing a pre-existing patent or that we need to license use of their patents to avoid infringement. such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us. we cannot predict whether or to what extent we will be subject to liability arising from these or other actions, nor can we predict how much of this liability would not be covered by our retrospective responsibility plan. if we are unsuccessful in our defense against any material current or future proceedings, we may be forced to pay substantial damages, limit the fees we charge, or change other business practices, limiting our payments volume resulting in a material and adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. 18 table of contents limitations on our business and other penalties resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years as a result of litigation and litigation settlements. for example, as a result of the june 2003 settlement of a u.s. merchant lawsuit against visa u.s.a., merchants are able to reject visa consumer debit cards in the united states while still accepting other visa-branded cards, and vice versa. in addition, following the final judgment entered in the litigation the doj brought against visa u.s.a. and visa international in 1998, as of october 2004, members of visa u.s.a. may issue certain competing payment cards. since this final judgment, several members of visa u.s.a. have begun to issue, or have announced that they will issue, american express or discover-branded cards. see note 21 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. these and any future limitations on our business resulting from settlements of, or judgments in, pending or potential litigation could limit the fees we charge and reduce our payments volume, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. tax audits or disputes, or changes in the tax laws applicable to us, could materially increase our tax payments. we exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may decrease their accuracy. we are currently under audit by the irs and other tax authorities and may be subject to additional audits in the future. the tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. in addition, changes in existing laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental u.s. and international tax reform, may also increase our effective tax rate. a substantial increase in our tax burden could have an adverse effect on our financial results. see also note 20 income taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. the payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may result in the imposition of costly new compliance burdens on our customers and us and may lead to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues. regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. examples of such regulation include: anti-money laundering regulation. this includes the u.s.a. patriot act and similar regulations in most other countries in which visa operates. u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control regulation. regulations imposed by the u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control, or ofac, restrict visa u.s.a. and visa international from dealing with certain countries, and parties considered to be connected with money laundering, terrorism or narcotics. non-u.s. visa international members may not be similarly restricted, so our payments system may be used for transactions in or involving countries or parties subject to ofac-administered sanctions. regulation of the price of credit . many jurisdictions in which our cards are used have new or proposed regulations that could increase the costs of card issuance or decrease the flexibility of card issuers to charge interest rates and fees on credit card accounts. these include the credit card act and proposed regulations thereunder and proposed changes to the federal truth in lending act, which, if implemented along with regulations required to be promulgated under the credit card act, could result in a decrease in our payments volume and revenues. 19 table of contents regulation of internet transactions. proposed legislation in various jurisdictions may make it less desirable or more costly to complete internet transactions using our cards by affecting the legality of those transactions, the law that governs them, their taxation and the allocation of intellectual property rights. safety and soundness regulation. recent federal banking regulations may make some financial institutions less attracted to becoming an issuer of our cards, because they may be subject to more conservative accounting procedures, increased risk management and higher capital requirements. increased regulatory focus in connection with these matters may increase our costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause a reduction in payments volume, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security could decrease the number of payment cards issued, our payments volume and our revenues. recently, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus in the united states (at the federal and state level) and elsewhere on privacy and data use and security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach. these measures may materially increase our costs and our customers costs and may decrease the number of our cards that our customers issue, materially and adversely affecting our profitability. our failure, or the failure of our customers, to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions, litigation, and damage to our global reputation and our brand. government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in certain countries have acted, or could act, to provide resources or protection to selected national payment card and processing providers in order to support them or to displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in their countries. our efforts to effect change in these countries may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. if government regulators determine that we are a systemically important payments system, we may have to change our settlement procedures or other operations, which could make it more costly to operate our business and reduce our operational flexibility. a number of international initiatives are underway to maintain financial stability by strengthening financial infrastructure. the committee on payment and settlement systems of the central banks of the group of ten countries has developed a set of core principles for systemically important payment systems. government regulators in the united states or elsewhere may determine that we are a systemically important payments system and impose settlement risk management requirements on us, including new settlement procedures or other operational rules to address credit and operational risks or new criteria for member participation and merchant access to our payments system. any of these developments could make it more costly to operate our business. 20 table of contents our framework agreement with visa europe includes indemnity obligations that could expose us to significant liabilities. under our framework agreement with visa europe, we are required to indemnify visa europe for losses resulting from any claims in the united states or anywhere else outside of visa europe region arising from our or their activities that relate to our payments business or the payments business of visa europe. this obligation applies even if neither we nor any of our related parties or agents participated in the actions that gave rise to such claims. such an obligation could expose us to significant liabilities for activities over which we have little or no control. our retrospective responsibility plan would not cover these liabilities. business risks we face intense competitive pressure on customer pricing, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. in order to increase payments volume, enter new market segments and expand our card base, we offer incentives to customers such as up-front cash payments, fee discounts, credits, performance-based growth incentives, marketing support payments and other support, such as marketing consulting and market research studies. over the past several years, we have increased our use of incentives such as up-front cash payments and fee discounts in many countries, including the united states. in order to stay competitive, we may have to continue to increase our use of incentives. such pressure may make the provision of certain products and services less profitable or unprofitable and materially and adversely affect our operating revenues and profitability if we continue to increase incentives to our customers, we will need to further increase payments volume or the amount of services we provide in order to benefit incrementally from such arrangements and to increase revenues and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so. in addition, we enter into long-term contracts with certain customers. continued pressure on fees could prevent us from entering into such agreements in the future on terms we consider favorable and may require us to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships. increased pricing pressure also enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives, and we may not succeed in these efforts. our operating results may suffer because of intense competition in the global payments industry. the global payments industry is intensely competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including cash, checks and electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automatic clearing house payments. in addition, our payment programs compete against the card- based payments systems of our competitors, such as mastercard, american express, discover and private-label cards issued by merchants. some of our competitors may develop substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer, may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have or may develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements. our competitors may also introduce more innovative programs and services than us. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers, without involving intermediaries. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from their business models. in addition, these competitors have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of open-loop multi-party payments systems such as ours. 21 table of contents our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. most of our larger customer relationships (including those with our largest customers, jpmorgan chase and bank of america) are not exclusive and in certain circumstances (including, in some cases, on relatively short notice) may be terminated by our customers. because a significant portion of our operating revenues are concentrated among our largest customers, our operating revenues would decline significantly if we lost one or more of our largest customers for any reason, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. we also expect that there may be changes in the competitive landscape in the future, including: competitors, customers and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added services we currently provide to support our transaction processing. parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position in the payments value chain. participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business propositions or create new payment services that compete with our services. competition may increase from alternative types of payment services, such as online payment services and services that permit direct debit of consumer checking accounts or ach payments. our failure to compete effectively against any of these threats, could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. consolidation of the banking industry could result in our losing business and may create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. the banking industry has recently undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation, which is likely to continue. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in one or more of our largest customers being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a competitor, resulting in a substantial loss of business. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with or acquire one of our competitors, and any such transaction could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. continued consolidation in the banking industry would also reduce the overall number of our customers and potential customers and could increase the bargaining power of our remaining customers and potential customers. this consolidation could lead financial institutions to seek greater pricing discounts or other incentives with us. in addition, consolidation could prompt our existing customers to seek to renegotiate their pricing agreements with us to obtain more favorable terms. we may also be adversely affected by price compression should one of our financial institution customers absorb another financial institution and qualify for higher volume-based discounts on the combined volumes of the merged businesses. pressure on the fees we charge our customers caused by such consolidation could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. in addition, the current economic environment could lead some customers to curtail or postpone near-term investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines, or take other actions that affect adversely the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these customers. 22 table of contents merchants are pursuing litigation and supporting regulatory proceedings relating to the costs associated with payment card acceptance and are negotiating incentive arrangements, including pricing discounts, all of which may increase our costs and materially and adversely affect our profitability. we rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our customers to maintain and expand the acceptance of our payment cards. we believe that consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants that are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry. the emphasis merchants are placing on the costs associated with payment card acceptance may lead to additional regulation and litigation, which would not be covered by our retrospective responsibility plan and which could impair our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. we, along with our customers, negotiate pricing discounts and other incentive arrangements with certain large merchants to increase acceptance of our payment cards. if merchants continue to consolidate, our customers and we may have to increase the incentives provided to certain larger merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. certain financial institutions have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. certain financial institutions have long-standing exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do material amounts of business with them in order to increase our revenues. in addition, these financial institutions may be more successful and may grow faster than the financial institutions that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. failure to maintain relationships with our customers and other third parties and failure of customers to provide services on our behalf could materially and adversely affect our business. we depend and will continue to depend significantly on relationships with our customers and their relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. in addition, we do not generally solicit merchants to accept our cards and we do not establish the discount rates merchants are charged for card acceptance, which are the responsibility of acquirers. as a result, the success of our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our customers and the strength of our relationships with them. in many countries outside of the united states our customers or other processors authorize, clear and settle most domestic (as opposed to cross-border) transactions using our payment cards without involving our processing systems. we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage the processing of transactions involving our cards, because we do not provide domestic transaction processing services in these countries, do not generally have direct relationships with merchants and never have direct relationships with cardholders. our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards carrying our brands in these countries may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to ensure the quality of the services supporting our brand. in addition, we depend on third parties to provide various services on our behalf, and to the extent that third-party vendors fail to deliver services, our business and reputation could be impaired. 23 table of contents our perception in the marketplace may affect our brands and reputation, which are key assets of our business. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain consumer cardholders and corporate clients to visa-branded products depends highly upon the external perceptions of our company and our industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that change the perception of our brands. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as predatory, which may materially and adversely affect our business. further, visa europe has very broad latitude to operate the visa business in and use our brands and technology within visa europe region and we have only limited control over the operation of the visa business there. visa europe is not required to spend any minimum amount of money promoting or building the visa brand in its region, and the strength of the visa global brand is contingent, in part, on the efforts of visa europe to maintain product and service recognition and quality in europe. finally, adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. global economic, political, health and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending and cross-border travel, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. we depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. the current economic environment could lead some customers to curtail or postpone near-term investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines, or take other actions that affect adversely the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these customers. a significant portion of the revenues we earn outside the united states results from cross-border business and leisure travel. in particular, revenues from processing foreign currency transactions fluctuate with cross-border travel and our customers need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, such as h1n1 and avian flu, viruses, such as sars, and other diseases. in addition, as we are principally domiciled in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could harm the perception of our company, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. we are exposed to a risk of loss or insolvency if our customers fail to fund settlement obligations we have guaranteed. we indemnify visa customers for any settlement loss suffered due to the failure of a customer to fund its daily settlement obligations. in certain instances, we may indemnify customers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. this indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. the term and amount of the indemnification are unlimited. concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our largest customers or of several of our smaller customers, or systemic operational failures that last for more than a single-day, may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the amount of such payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. 24 table of contents settlement at risk (or exposure) is estimated based on the sum of the following inputs: (1) average daily volumes during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle plus a safety margin; and (2) four months of rolling average chargebacks volume; and (3) the total balance for outstanding travelers cheques. see note 12 settlement guarantee management to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. some visa customers are composed of groups of financial institutions. some of these customers have elected to limit their responsibility for settlement losses arising from the failure of their constituent financial institutions in exchange for managing their constituent financial institutions in accordance with our credit risk policy. to the extent that any settlement failure resulting from a constituent financial institution exceeds the limits established by our credit risk policy, we would have to absorb the cost of such settlement failure, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flow. if our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we cannot process transactions efficiently, the perception of our brands and our revenues or operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions or degradation because of processing or other technology malfunction, fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism or accident. our visibility in the global payments industry may attract terrorists and hackers to conduct physical or computer-based attacks, leading to an interruption in service, increased costs or the compromise of data security. additionally, we rely on service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. if a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands reliability and materially reduce our revenues or profitability. if we are not able to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in the payments industry to provide customers, merchants and cardholders with new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, which could reduce our revenues and income. the payments industry is subject to rapid, significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), e-commerce and mobile commerce. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card products and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards, by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes or by third parties intellectual property. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. account data breaches involving card data stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenues. we, our customers, merchants and other third parties store cardholder account information in connection with our payment cards. in addition, our customers may use third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. breach of the systems on which 25 table of contents sensitive cardholder data and account information are stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving our cards, reputational damage and claims against us. if we are sued in connection with any data security breach, we could be involved in protracted litigation. if unsuccessful in defending such lawsuits, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. in addition, any reputational damage resulting from an account data breach at one or more of our customers, merchants or other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which could have a material adverse impact on our payments volume, revenues and future growth prospects. finally, any data security breach could result in additional regulation, which could materially increase our costs. an increase in fraudulent and other illegal activity involving our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft. as outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. if fraud levels involving our cards were to rise, it could lead to reputational damage to our brands, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards, or to greater regulation, which could increase our compliance costs. failure to maintain interoperability between visa inc. and visa europe authorization and clearing and settlement systems could damage the business and global perception of the visa brand. with the completion of the deployment of visa europe own authorization and clearing and settlement systems expected in fiscal 2010, it is incumbent upon both service providers, visa inc. and visa europe, to ensure their systems can process every transaction regardless of where it originates. the increasingly independent payments system operations of visa europe could present challenges to our business due to the heightened difficulty of maintaining the interoperability of our respective systems as they diverge over time. failure to authorize or clear and settle transactions in a timely and accurate manner could impair the global perception of the visa brand. material changes in our customers performance compared to our estimates could have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations. in certain instances, we offer our customers financial incentives, which are typically tied to their payments volume or transaction messages processed, often under particular programs. these financial incentives are typically recorded as a reduction of revenues. we generally make estimates of our customers performance under these programs (sometimes over several years) in order to derive our estimates of the financial incentives that we will pay them. the reduction of revenues that we record each quarter under volume and support agreements is based on these estimates. material differences between our customers performance and our estimates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. for example, if a customer performs better than expected, we may be required to reduce future period revenues to account for the fact that we did not reduce revenues enough in prior periods. on the other hand, if a customer performs worse than expected, we may conclude that we reduced revenues by too much in previous period. 26 table of contents risks related to our structure and organization we have a limited ability to control visa europe operations and limited recourse in the event of a breach of its obligations to us. our relationship with visa europe is governed by a framework agreement, which gives visa europe very broad rights to operate the visa business in its region. since our reorganization, visa europe has not been subject to the same global operating rules as our subsidiaries and customers. if we want to change a global rule or require visa europe to implement certain changes that would not have a positive return for visa europe and its members, then visa europe is not required to implement that rule or change unless we agree to pay for the implementation costs and expenses that visa europe and its members will incur as a consequence of the implementation. our remedies under this agreement, if visa europe fails to meet its obligations, are limited. we cannot terminate the framework agreement even upon visa europe material uncured breach, and we can exercise our call right to purchase visa europe under only extremely limited circumstances. these and other features of the licenses granted under the framework agreement may also raise issues concerning the characterization of the licenses for purposes of tax treatment of entry into the licenses and payments received thereunder. any inconsistency in the payment processing services and products that we are able to provide could negatively affect cardholders from visa europe using cards in our regions or our cardholders using cards in visa europe region. if visa europe makes us acquire all of its outstanding stock, we will incur substantial costs and may suffer a material and adverse effect on our operations and net income. we have granted visa europe a put option, which, if exercised, will require us to purchase all of visa europe outstanding capital stock from its members. we will incur a substantial financial obligation if visa europe exercises the put option, which it may do at any time. we cannot estimate the amount of this obligation due to the nature and number of factors involved and the range of important assumptions that would be required, but it could be several billion dollars or more. we may need to obtain third-party financing, either by borrowing funds or by undertaking a subsequent equity offering, in order to meet our obligation. sufficient financing may not be available to us, on reasonable terms, within the 285 days we would have to pay the exercise price. an equity offering or the payment of part of the exercise price in our stock would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. see note 3 visa europe to our consolidated financial statements include in item 8 of this report. if visa europe exercises the put option, we may encounter difficulties in integrating visa europe business and systems into our existing operations. if we cannot do so quickly and cost-effectively, the integration could divert the time and attention of senior management, disrupt our current operations and adversely affect our results of operations. we are required to record quarterly any change in the fair value of the put option. these adjustments will be recorded through our consolidated statements of operations, which will therefore affect our reported net income and earnings per share. these quarterly adjustments and their resulting impact on our reported statements of operations could be significant. the existence of these charges could adversely affect our ability to raise capital or the price at which we can raise it. see note 3 visa europe to our consolidated financial statements include in item 8 of this report. we depend on key employees and may be unable to retain them. our employees are vital to our success, and our key management and other employees are difficult to replace. we may not be able to retain highly qualified employees in the future, which could adversely affect our business. 27 table of contents any acquisitions or strategic investments that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. we may make strategic acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies, although we have entered into relatively few such transactions in the past. we may not be able to successfully finance, partner with or integrate any such businesses, products or technologies. furthermore, the integration of any acquisition or investment may divert management time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenues. our cash reserves would be reduced to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition or investment in cash. if we pay the purchase price with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. while we from time to time evaluate potential acquisitions of and investments in businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions and investments. future sales of our class a common stock or convertible securities, or the expiration or waiver of transfer restrictions on our class b and class c common stock, could result in dilution to our existing class a common stock holders, which may adversely affect their rights and depress the market price of our class a common stock. the market price of our class a common stock and the voting power of our outstanding shares of class a common stock could decline because of increases in the number of such shares outstanding. the market price of our class a common stock may also be adversely affected by the perception that such an increase could occur, such as upon the issuance or conversion of securities convertible to shares of our class a common stock. if funds are released from escrow after the resolution of the litigation covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, holders of our class a common stock will suffer dilution because of a favorable adjustment to the conversion rate of our class b common stock. our retrospective responsibility plan provides that any amounts remaining in the escrow account after the date on which all of the covered litigation is resolved will be released back to us and that the conversion rate of the class b common stock then outstanding will be adjusted in favor of the holders of the class b common stock. the adjustment would be through a formula based on the released escrow amount and the market price of our class a common stock. if any funds remain in the escrow account and are released back to us, the resulting adjustment in the conversion rate of the class b common stock will result in each share of class b common stock then outstanding becoming convertible into an increased number of shares of class a common stock. this in turn will result in dilution of the interest in visa inc. held by the holders of class a common stock. the amount of this dilution will depend on the amount, if any, of the funds released from the escrow account and the market price of our class a common stock at the time those funds are released. all shares of class a common stock acquired by a visa member, an affiliate of a visa member or a similar person will be converted automatically into class c common stock and, as a result, will generally not be transferable until march 25, 2011, and they will lose substantially all their voting rights. all shares of common stock acquired by a visa member, an affiliate of a visa member or any person that is a competitor or its affiliate, in each case to the extent acting as a principal investor, will be converted automatically into class c common stock. under the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, class c common stock is generally not transferable until march 25, 2011. after this date has passed, the class c common stock will be convertible into class a common stock only if transferred to a person that was not, immediately after our reorganization, a visa member, an 28 table of contents affiliate of a visa member or a competitor or its affiliate. upon such transfer, each share of class c common stock will convert into one share of class a common stock. holders of our class b and class c common stock have voting rights concerning certain significant corporate transactions, and their interests in our business may be different from those of holders of our class a common stock. although holders of our class b and class c common stock do not have any right to vote on those matters on which stockholders generally are entitled to vote, such as the election of directors, such holders do have the right to vote on certain significant transactions, such as a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business or any other vote required by law. the holders of the class b and class c common stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class a common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with those of the holders of class a common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a takeover attempt or a change in control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and delaware law could delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. for instance, except for limited exceptions, no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class a common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding shares on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance. in addition, except for common stock issued to a member in connection with our reorganization or shares issuable on conversion of such common stock, shares held by a competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may not exceed 5% of our total outstanding shares on an as-converted basis. our ability to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock in the future is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. in august 2008, we commenced quarterly payment of cash dividends on our class a, class b and class c common stock. any future payment of dividends will depend upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows. however, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. payment of future dividends, if any, would be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, covenants in our debt instruments and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. if, because of these factors, we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to make payments of dividends of our common stock. furthermore, no dividend may be declared or paid on any class or series of common stock unless an equivalent dividend is contemporaneously declared and paid on each other class and series of common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. 56 table of contentsrisk factors regulatory risks regulations that prohibit us from requiring our customers to use only our network may decrease the number of transactions we process, materially and adversely affecting our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. we have agreements with some issuers under which they agree to issue certain payment cards that use only the visa network or receive incentives if they do so. in addition, certain issuers of some debit products choose to include only the visa network. we refer to these various practices as network exclusivity. in addition, certain network or issuer rules or practices may be interpreted as limiting the routing options of merchants when multiple debit networks co-reside on visa debit cards. increased regulatory scrutiny in the united states has already resulted in laws that will limit our and issuers ability to impose rules for, or choose various forms of, network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit area. see the u.s. wall street reform and consumer protection act may have a material adverse impact on our revenues, our prospects for future growth and our overall business . these restrictions and future regulations like them in the united states and elsewhere have the potential to cause a material decrease in the number of transactions we process. in order to retain that transaction volume, we might have to reduce the fees we charge to issuers or acquirers, or we might have to increase the payments and other incentives we provide to issuers or acquirers or directly to merchants. any of these eventualities could have a material, adverse affect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. interchange reimbursement fees and related practices have been receiving significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting regulations may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. interchange represents a transfer of value between the financial institutions participating in a payments network such as ours. in connection with transactions initiated with cards in our payments system, interchange reimbursement fees are typically paid to issuers, the financial institutions that issue visa cards to cardholders. they are typically paid by acquirers, the financial institutions that offer visa network connectivity and payments acceptance services to merchants. we refer to a system like ours, in which a payment network intermediates between the issuer and the acquirer, as an open-loop system. 19 table of contents we generally do not receive any portion of interchange reimbursement fees. they are, however, a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process over our network. consequently, changes to these fees can have a substantial impact on our revenues. we have historically set default interchange reimbursement fees in the united states and other countries. however, in certain jurisdictions, interchange rates and related practices are subject to increased government regulation. increased regulatory scrutiny in the united states has already resulted in limitations on our ability to establish default interchange rates in the debit area. see the u.s. wall street reform and consumer protection act may have a material adverse impact on our revenues, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. in addition, interchange rates have become subject to increased scrutiny elsewhere, and regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions have reviewed or are reviewing them. these include australia, canada, brazil and south africa. if we cannot set default interchange rates at optimal levels, issuers and acquirers may find our payments system unattractive. this could materially lower overall transaction volumes. it could also materially increase the attraction of closed-loop payments systems those with direct connections to both merchants and consumers and other forms of payment. in addition, issuers could begin to charge higher fees to consumers. this would make our card programs less desirable and reduce our transaction volumes and profitability. acquirers could elect to charge higher discount rates to merchants, regardless of the level of visa interchange, leading merchants not to accept cards for payment or to steer visa cardholders to alternate payment systems. in addition, issuers and acquirers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card programs by seeking incentives from us or a reduction in the fees that we charge. any of the foregoing could have a substantial, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. the u.s. wall street reform and consumer protection act may have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. the wall street reform and consumer protection act recently enacted in the united states includes provisions that will regulate the selection of payment networks by issuers and the routing of debit transactions by retailers. this may result in the routing of debit transactions onto competing networks, potentially reducing the processing fees we earn on debit transactions. the legislation also establishes regulation and oversight by the u.s. federal reserve board of debit interchange rates and certain other network industry practices. in addition, the federal reserve now has the power to regulate network fees to the extent necessary to prevent evasion of the new rules on interchange rates. the act also created a new independent consumer financial protection bureau within the federal reserve system. the bureau will assume responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services and will have new authorities with respect to consumer issues. the bureau actions may make payment card transactions less attractive to card issuers. this could result in a reduction in our payments volume and revenues. the new legislation may have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. failure by our clients or by us successfully to adjust our strategies to compete in the new environment would increase this impact. 20 table of contents new regulations in one jurisdiction or of one product segment may lead to new regulations in other jurisdictions or of other products. regulators around the world increasingly look at each other approaches to the regulation of the payments industry. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. this includes the recent u.s. wall street reform and consumer protection act. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one product segment may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another product. for example, regulations like those affecting debit payments could eventually spread to regulate credit. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another product segment. these include matters like interchange rates, network exclusivity and preferred routing agreements. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, materially and adversely affecting our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in certain countries provide resources or protection to selected national payment card and processing providers. these governments may take this action in order to support these providers. they may also take this action to keep us from entering these countries, to force us to leave, or to restrict substantially our activities there. for example, china, a significant emerging market, has increasingly tightened its rules requiring use of its payment system for domestic transactions. additionally, governments in certain countries are considering, or may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments entirely in that country. this would prevent us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for our clients. our efforts to effect change in these countries may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brands. regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security could decrease the number of payment cards issued, our payments volume and our revenues. recently, privacy, data use and security have received heightened legislative and regulatory focus in the united states (at the federal and state level) and in other countries. for example, in many jurisdictions consumers must be notified in the event of a data breach. these measures may materially increase our costs and our clients costs. they may also decrease the number of our cards our clients issue. this would materially and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, our failure, or the failure of our clients, to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, litigation and damage to our global reputation and our brands. if government regulators determine that we are a systemically important payments system, we may have to change our settlement procedures or other operations, making it costlier to operate our business and reducing our operational flexibility. a number of international initiatives are underway to maintain financial stability by strengthening financial infrastructure. the committee on payment and settlement systems of the central banks of the group of ten countries has developed a set of core principles for systemically important payment systems. government regulators in the united states or elsewhere may determine that we are a 21 table of contents systemically important payments system and impose settlement risk-management requirements on us. these could include new settlement procedures or other operational rules to address credit and operational risks. they could also include new criteria for member participation and merchant access to our payments system. any of these developments could increase the cost of operating our business. recent increased global regulatory focus on the payments industry may result in costly new compliance burdens on our clients and on us, leading to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues. regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. examples include: anti-money-laundering regulation . the u.s.a. patriot act and similar laws in other jurisdictions require us to maintain a comprehensive anti-money laundering program; u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control regulation . regulations imposed by the u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control, or ofac, restrict us from dealing with certain countries and parties considered to be connected with money laundering, terrorism or narcotics. non-u.s. visa international members may not be similarly restricted, so our payments system may be used for transactions in or involving countries or parties subject to ofac-administered sanctions, potentially subjecting us to penalties, reputational damage or loss of business; regulation of the price of credit . many jurisdictions in which our cards are used have new or proposed regulations that could increase the costs of card issuance or decrease the flexibility of card issuers to charge interest rates and fees on credit card accounts. these include the credit card act and proposed regulations under it. they also include proposed changes to the federal truth in lending act, which, if implemented along with regulations required to be promulgated under the credit card act, could result in a decrease in our payments volume and revenues; regulation of internet transactions . proposed legislation in various jurisdictions may make it less desirable or more costly to complete internet transactions using our cards by affecting the legality of those transactions, the law that governs them, their taxation and the allocation of intellectual property rights; and safety and soundness regulation . recent federal banking regulations may make some financial institutions less attracted to becoming an issuer of our cards, because they may be subject to more conservative accounting procedures, increased risk management or higher capital requirements. complying with these and other regulations may increase our costs. similarly, the impact of such regulations on our clients may reduce the volume of payments we process. moreover, such regulations could limit the types of products and services that we offer, the countries in which our cards are used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects for future growth, financial condition and results of operations. litigation risks a finding of liability in the interchange litigation may result in substantial damages. since 2005, approximately 55 class actions and individual complaints have been filed on behalf of merchants against us, mastercard and/or other defendants, including certain financial institutions that issue visa-branded payment cards and acquire visa-branded payment transactions in the u.s. we refer to this as the interchange litigation. among other antitrust allegations, the plaintiffs allege that 22 table of contents visa setting of default interchange rates violated federal and state antitrust laws. the lawsuits have been transferred to a multidistrict litigation in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of new york. the plaintiffs in the interchange litigation seek damages for alleged overcharges in merchant discount fees as well as injunctive and other relief. the consolidated class action complaint alleges that the plaintiffs estimate that damages will range in the tens of billions of dollars. because these lawsuits were brought under the u.s. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages will be trebled, and we may be subject to joint and several liability among the defendants if liability is established. this could significantly magnify the effect of any adverse judgment. the interchange litigation is part of the covered litigation that our retrospective responsibility plan is intended to address. the retrospective responsibility plan may not, however, adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements of, or judgments in, the interchange litigation. failure to successfully defend or settle the interchange litigation would result in liability that, to the extent not covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. in addition, even if our retrospective responsibility plan covered our direct financial exposure, settlements or judgments involving the multidistrict litigation could include restrictions on our ability to conduct business, which could increase our cost of doing business and limit our prospects for future growth. see our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements and judgments in the covered litigation and will not insulate us from other pending or future litigation, and see note 22 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements or final judgments. our retrospective responsibility plan addresses monetary liabilities from settlements of, or final judgments in, the covered litigation, which is described in note 22 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. the retrospective responsibility plan consists of several related mechanisms to fund settlements or judgments in the covered litigation. these include an escrow account funded with a portion of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and potential subsequent offerings of our shares of class a common stock (or deposits of cash to the escrow account in lieu of such offerings), a loss-sharing agreement and a judgment-sharing agreement. in addition, our u.s. members are obligated to indemnify us pursuant to visa u.s.a. certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in accordance with their membership agreements. these mechanisms are unique and complicated, and if we cannot use one or more of them, we could have difficulty funding the payment of a settlement or final judgment against us in a covered litigation. this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. the retrospective responsibility plan only addresses the covered litigation. the plan does not cover other pending litigation or any litigation that we may face in the future, except for cases that include claims for damages relating to the period prior to our initial public offering that are transferred for pre-trial proceedings or otherwise included in the interchange litigation. in addition, our retrospective responsibility plan covers only the potential monetary liability from settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation. non-monetary settlement terms and judgments in the covered litigation may require us to modify the way we do business in the future. this could adversely affect our revenues, increase our expenses and/or limit our prospects for growth. therefore, even if our retrospective responsibility plan adequately safeguards us from the monetary impact of settlements of, and judgments in, the covered litigation, it may not insulate us from all potential adverse consequences of them. 23 table of contents if the settlements of our currency conversion cases do not become final and we are unsuccessful in any of the various lawsuits relating to visa u.s.a. and visa international currency conversion practices, our business may be materially and adversely affected. visa u.s.a. and visa international are defendants in several state and federal lawsuits alleging that their currency conversion practices are or were deceptive, anti-competitive or otherwise unlawful. on july 20, 2006, and september 14, 2006, visa u.s.a. and visa international entered into agreements to settle or otherwise dispose of these matters. under the settlement agreements, visa u.s.a. paid approximately $100 million as part of the defendants settlement fund for the federal actions and approximately $19 million to fund settlement of the state cases. although the federal court has granted final approval of the settlement agreements, the settlements are subject to resolution of any appeals. if we are unsuccessful in any appellate proceeding, all of the agreements resolving the federal and state actions will terminate. if that occurs and we are unsuccessful in defending against some or all of these lawsuits on the merits, we may have to pay restitution, damages or both, and we may be required to modify our currency conversion practices. the potential amount of damages, restitution or both could be substantial. in addition, although we have substantially changed the practices at issue in these litigations, court-ordered changes to our currency conversion and cross-border transaction practices could materially and adversely affect our business. see note 22 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. if we are found liable in certain other pending or future lawsuits, we may have to pay substantial damages or change our business practices or pricing structure, which may have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. like many large companies, we are a defendant in a number of civil actions and investigations alleging violations of competition/antitrust law, securities law, consumer protection law, or intellectual property law, among others. these lawsuits and investigations have been initiated by a wide variety of parties, including the u.s. department of justice, or the doj, u.s. state attorneys general, merchants, and consumers. examples of such claims are described more fully in note 22 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. some lawsuits involve complex claims that are subject to substantial uncertainties and unspecified damages; therefore, we cannot ascertain the probability of loss or estimate the damages. accordingly, we have not established allowances for such legal proceedings. in the united states, private plaintiffs often seek class action certification in cases against us. this is particularly so in cases involving merchants and consumers, due to the size and scope of our business. if we are found liable in a large class action lawsuit, monetary damages could be significant. if we are unsuccessful in our defense against any material current or future proceedings, we may have to pay substantial damages, limit the fees we charge or change other business practices. this could limit our payments volume and result in a material and adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations, cash flow, financial conditions, prospects for future growth and overall business and could even cause us to become insolvent. limitations on our business that resulted from litigation may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation. for example, in october 2010, we reached a settlement, subject to court approval, with the antitrust division of the doj and a number of state attorneys general relating to their investigation of certain visa merchant acceptance practices. under the agreement, visa will allow u.s. merchants to offer discounts or other incentives to steer cardholders to a particular form of payment including to a specific 24 table of contents network brand or to any card product, such as a non-reward visa credit card. see note 22 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. the agreement does not address surcharging or the setting of default interchange, and does not preclude the doj from pursuing a future investigation of these or other topics. similarly, as a result of the june 2003 settlement of a u.s. merchant lawsuit against visa u.s.a., merchants are able to reject our consumer debit cards in the united states while still accepting other visa-branded cards, and vice versa. these and other limitations on our business that were the result of settlements of, or judgments in, litigation could limit the fees we charge and reduce our payments volume, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. tax audits or disputes, or changes in the tax laws applicable to us, could materially increase our tax payments. we exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may decrease their accuracy. we are currently under audit by the u.s. internal revenue service and other tax authorities, and we may be subject to additional audits in the future. the tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. in addition, changes in existing laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental u.s. and international tax reform, may also increase our effective tax rate. a substantial increase in our tax burden could have a material, adverse effect on our financial results. see also note 21 income taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. our agreement with visa europe includes indemnity obligations that could expose us to significant liabilities. under our framework agreement with visa europe, we indemnify it for losses resulting from all claims outside its region arising from our or their activities and relating to our or their payments business. this obligation applies even if neither we, nor any of our related parties or agents, participated in the actions giving rise to such claims. such an obligation could expose us to significant liabilities for activities over which we have little or no control. our retrospective responsibility plan would not cover these liabilities. business risks the intense pressure we face on client pricing may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profits. we offer incentives to clients in order to increase payments volume, enter new market segments and expand our card base. these include up-front cash payments, fee discounts, credits, performance-based incentives, marketing support payments and other support. over the past several years, we have increased the use of incentives such as up-front cash payments and fee discounts in many countries, including the united states. in order to stay competitive, we may have to continue to increase our use of incentives. this pressure may make the provision of certain products and services less profitable or unprofitable and materially and adversely affect our operating revenues and profitability. pressure on client pricing also poses indirect risks, presenting the potential for the same adverse effects. if we continue to increase incentives to our clients, we will need to find ways to offset the financial impact by increasing payments volume, the amount of fee-based services we provide or both. we may not succeed in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. in addition, we benefit from long-term contracts with certain clients, including those that are large contributors to our 25 table of contents revenue. continued pressure on our fees could prevent us from entering into such agreements in the future on favorable terms. we may also have to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships or comply with regulations. finally, increased pricing pressure enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those surrounding client incentives, and we may not succeed in these efforts. our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer because of intense competition in our industry. the global payments industry is intensely competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment. these include cash, checks and electronic transactions, such as wire transfers and automatic clearinghouse payments. in addition, our payment programs compete against the card-based payments systems of our competitors, such as mastercard, american express, discover and private-label cards issued by merchants. some of our competitors may develop substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. they may offer a wider range of programs and services than we do. they may use advertising and marketing strategies that are more effective than ours, achieving broader brand recognition and merchant acceptance than we do. they may develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements than we have. they may also introduce more innovative programs and services than we provide. certain of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures or participate selectively in different market segments. these include domestic networks in the united states, china, canada, australia and other countries and regions. they may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to new regulatory, technological and other developments. in many cases, these competitors have the support of government mandates that prohibit, limit or otherwise hinder our ability to compete for or otherwise secure transactions within those countries and regions. our clients can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. this is especially so given the recent u.s. wall street reform and consumer protection act, which restricts our ability to require network exclusivity in the debit sector. most of our larger client relationships are not exclusive. these include those with our largest clients, jpmorgan chase and bank of america. in certain circumstances, our clients may terminate these relationships, sometimes on relatively short notice, and in many cases subject to significant early termination fees. because a significant portion of our operating revenues is concentrated among our largest clients, our operating revenues would decline significantly if we lost one or more of them. this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see note 15 enterprise-wide disclosure and concentration of business to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. we expect there to be changes in the competitive landscape in the future. for example: competitors, clients and others may develop products that compete with or replace the value-added services we provide to support our transaction processing; parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position in the payments value chain; participants in the payments industry may merge, form joint ventures or enter into other business combinations that strengthen their existing business propositions or create new, competing payment services; or competition may increase from alternative types of payment services, such as mobile payments services, online payment services and services that permit direct debit of consumer checking accounts or ach payments. 26 table of contents our failure to compete effectively against any of these threats could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. disintermediation from the payments value chain would harm our business. our position in the payments value chain underpins our business. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate closed-loop payments systems, with direct connections to both merchants and consumers and no intermediaries. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from this business model. in addition, they have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as operators of multi-party payments systems such as ours. we also run the risk of disintermediation by virtue of increasing bilateral agreements between entities that would rather not use a payment network for processing payments. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. additional consolidation in the banking industry could result in our losing business and create pressure on the fees we charge our clients, materially and adversely affecting our revenues and profitability. the banking industry has recently undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation, which could continue. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in the acquisition of one or more of our largest clients by an institution with a strong relationship with one of our competitors. this could result in the acquired bank visa business shifting to that competitor, resulting in a substantial loss of business to us. in addition, one or more of our clients could merge with or acquire one of our competitors, shifting its payments volume to that competitor. any such transaction could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. continued consolidation in the banking industry would also reduce the overall number of our clients and potential clients and could increase the negotiating power of our remaining clients and potential clients. this consolidation could lead financial institutions to seek greater pricing discounts or other incentives with us. in addition, consolidation could prompt our existing clients to seek to renegotiate their pricing agreements with us to obtain more favorable terms. we may also be adversely affected by price compression should one of our clients absorb another financial institution and qualify for higher volume-based discounts on the combined volumes of the merged businesses. pressure on the fees we charge our clients caused by such consolidation could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. in addition, the current economic environment could lead some clients to curtail or postpone near-term investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines or take other actions that affect adversely the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these clients. merchants continued focus on the costs associated with payment card acceptance may result in more litigation, regulation, regulatory enforcement and incentive arrangements. we rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our clients to maintain and expand the acceptance of our payment cards. consolidation in the retail industry is producing a group of larger merchants that is having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry. some merchants are seeking to reduce their costs associated with payment card acceptance by lobbying for new legislation and regulatory enforcement and by bringing litigation. if they continue, these efforts could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. 27 table of contents we, along with our clients, negotiate pricing discounts and other incentive arrangements with certain large merchants to increase acceptance and usage of our payment cards. if merchants continue to consolidate, our clients and we may have to increase the incentives provided to certain larger merchants. this could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the cost of these incentives. certain financial institutions have exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. certain financial institutions have longstanding exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards. these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to conduct material amounts of business with them in order to increase our revenues. in addition, these financial institutions may be more successful and may grow more quickly than our clients, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. failure to maintain relationships with our clients and others and failure of clients to provide services on our behalf could materially and adversely affect our business. we depend and will continue to depend significantly on relationships with our clients and on their relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates, if any, or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. in addition, we do not generally solicit merchants to accept our cards, and we do not establish the discount rates charged to merchants for card acceptance, which rates are the responsibility of acquirers. as a result, the success of our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our clients and the strength of our relationships with them. in many countries outside the united states, our clients or other processors authorize, clear and settle most domestic transactions using our payment cards without involving our processing systems. in addition, we do not generally have direct relationships with merchants and do not have direct relationships with cardholders. consequently, we depend on our close working relationships with our clients to effectively manage the processing of transactions involving our cards, our inability to control the end-to-end processing for cards carrying our brands in these countries may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to ensure the quality of the services supporting our brands. in addition, we depend on third parties to provide various services on our behalf, and to the extent that third-party vendors fail to deliver services, our business and reputation could be impaired. our perception in the marketplace may affect our brands and reputation, which are key assets of our business. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain consumer cardholders and corporate clients to visa-branded products depends highly upon the external perceptions of our company and our industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our clients that change the perception of our brands. from time to time, our clients may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be subject to challenge, which may materially and adversely affect our business. further, visa europe has very broad latitude to operate the visa business in and use our brands and technology within visa europe region, in which we have only limited control over the operation of the visa business. visa europe is not required to spend any minimum amount of money promoting or building the visa brands 28 table of contents in its region, and the strength of the visa global brands depends in part on the efforts of visa europe to maintain product and service recognition and quality in europe. finally, adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. unprecedented economic events in financial markets around the world have and are likely to continue to affect our clients, merchants and cardholders, resulting in a material and adverse impact on our prospects, growth, profitability, revenue and overall business. the competitive and evolving nature of the global payments industry provides both challenges to and opportunities for the continued growth of our business. unprecedented events that began in 2008 continue to affect the financial markets around the world. this includes decreased consumer spending, increased unemployment, deflation, increased savings, decreased debt, excess housing inventory, lowered government spending, less export activity, continued challenges in the credit environment, continued equity market volatility, additional government intervention and the uncertainty arising from new government policies. this economic turmoil has affected the economies of the united states and other mature economies in particular. the fragility of the current situation would be exacerbated if additional negative economic developments were to arise. these could include, among other things, policy missteps, exhaustion of u.s. and other national economic stimulus packages, dramatic increases in oil prices, tax increases, economic turmoil in china, the euro zone or japan or a significant decline in the commercial real estate market. some existing clients have been placed in receivership or administration or have a significant amount of their stock owned by their governments. many financial institutions are facing increased regulatory and governmental influence, including potential changes in laws and regulations. many of our clients, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands have been directly and adversely affected. our financial results may be negatively affected by actions taken by individual financial institutions or by governmental or regulatory bodies in response to the economic crisis. the severity of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance that have historically been present. as a result, our revenue growth has been and may be negatively affected, or we may be affected, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: constriction of consumer and business confidence may continue to decrease cardholder spending. uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our clients businesses may reduce the accuracy of our estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets. our clients may implement cost-reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or additional expense reductions, which may reduce our revenues. our clients may decrease spending for optional or enhanced services, affect our revenue and reduce cardholders desire to use these products. government intervention or investments in our clients may negatively affect our business with those institutions or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. tightening of credit availability could affect the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. 29 table of contents our clients may default on their settlement obligations. our business and prospects, as well as our revenue and profitability, could be materially and adversely affected by consolidation of our clients. in addition, regulatory bodies may seek to impose rules and price controls on certain aspects of our business and the payments industry. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, growth, revenue, profitability and overall business. a decline in non-u.s. and cross-border activity and in multi-currency transactions could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as we generate a significant portion of our revenue from such transactions. we generate a significant amount of our revenues from cross-border transactions. our clients pay us fees in connection with cross-border transactions. some of those fees may differ if conversion from the merchant currency to the cardholder billing currency is required. thus, revenue from processing cross-border transactions for our clients fluctuates with cross-border travel and the need for transactions to be converted into a different currency. cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism, natural disasters, the effects of climate change and outbreaks of diseases. a decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. a decline in the need for conversion of currencies might also adversely affect our revenues and profitability. in addition, visa derives revenue from foreign currency exchange activities that result from our clients settlement in different currencies. a reduction in multi-currency transactions may reduce the need for foreign currency exchange activities and adversely affect our revenues. transactions outside the united states represent an increasingly important part of our strategy. in order to continue to grow in those areas, we will need to ensure that we maintain consistency in the types of products we provide, the quality of our service and the viability of our brand. if we cannot employ our organizational resources effectively, we will be unable to do so. finally, because we are domiciled in the united states, a negative perception of the united states arising from its political or other positions could harm the perception of our company and our brand. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. we risk loss or insolvency if our clients fail to fund settlement obligations we have guaranteed. we indemnify issuers and acquirers for any settlement loss they suffer due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to fund its daily settlement obligations. in certain instances, we may indemnify issuers or acquirers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. this indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. the term and amount of our indemnification obligations are unlimited. concurrent settlement failures involving more than one of our largest clients or several of our smaller clients may exceed our available financial resources, as could systemic operational failures lasting more than a single day. any such failure could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a 30 table of contents settlement failure, we may be unable to recover the amount of such payment. this could expose us to significant losses, materially and adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we estimate settlement at risk (or exposure) based on the sum of three inputs. the first is average daily volumes during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle plus a safety margin. the second is four months of rolling average chargebacks volume. the third is the total balance for outstanding traveler cheques. additionally, from time to time, we review and revise our risk management methodology and inputs as necessary. see note 13 settlement guarantee management to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. some of our clients are composed of groups of financial institutions. some of these clients have elected to limit their responsibility for settlement losses arising from the failure of their constituent financial institutions in exchange for managing their constituent financial institutions in accordance with our credit risk policy. to the extent that any settlement failure resulting from a constituent financial institution exceeds the limits established by our credit risk policy, we would have to absorb the cost of such settlement failure, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flow. if our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we cannot process transactions efficiently, the perception of our brands and our revenues or operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions or degradation because of processing or other technology malfunction, fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism, climate change or accident. our visibility in the global payments industry may attract terrorists and hackers to conduct physical or computer-based attacks, leading to an interruption in service, increased costs or the compromise of data security. additionally, we rely on service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. if a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require because of a natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands reliability and materially reduce our revenues or profitability. if we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, reducing our revenues and net income. rapid, significant technological changes are confronting the payments industry. these include developments in smart cards, ecommerce, mobile commerce and radio frequency and proximity payment devices, such as contactless cards. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge. these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card products and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, by resistance to change from clients or merchants or by third parties intellectual property rights. our success will depend in part on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. account data breaches involving card data stored by third parties or by us could adversely affect our reputation and revenues. our clients, merchants, others and we store cardholder account information in connection with our payment cards. in addition, our clients may use third-party processors to process transactions 31 table of contents generated by cards carrying our brands. breach of the systems storing sensitive cardholder data and account information could lead to fraudulent activity involving visa-branded cards, to reputational damage and to claims against us. if we are sued in connection with any data security breach, we could be involved in protracted litigation. if unsuccessful in defending such lawsuits, we may have to pay damages or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. in addition, any reputational damage resulting from an account data breach at one or more of our clients, merchants or other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which could have a material adverse impact on our payments volume, revenues and future growth prospects. finally, any data security breach could result in additional regulation, which could materially increase our costs. an increase in fraudulent and other illegal activity involving our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information. they use the information to conduct fraudulent transactions. outsourcing and specialization of functions within the payments system are increasing. as a result, more third parties are involved in processing transactions using our cards. a rise in fraud levels involving our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands. this could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or lead to greater regulation, which could increase our compliance costs. failure to maintain interoperability between visa inc. and visa europe authorization and clearing and settlement systems could damage the business and global perception of the visa brands. before our reorganization in october 2007, visa europe and we shared authorization, clearing, and settlement systems. visa europe completed and substantially deployed its own systems in the 2010 fiscal year. as a result, visa europe and we will have to ensure that the two systems can process every transaction, regardless of where it originates. visa europe newly independent system operations could present challenges to our business due to the heightened difficulty of maintaining the interoperability of our respective systems as they diverge over time. failure to authorize or clear and settle transactions quickly and accurately could impair the global perception of the visa brands. risks related to our structure and organization we have little ability to control visa europe operations and limited recourse if it breaches its obligations to us. visa europe has very broad rights to operate the visa business in its region under the agreement that governs our relationship. if we want to change a global rule or require visa europe to implement certain changes that would not have a positive return for visa europe and its members, then visa europe is not required to implement that rule or change unless we agree to pay for the implementation costs and expenses that visa europe and its members will incur as a consequence of the implementation. if visa europe fails to meet its obligations, our remedies under this agreement are limited. we cannot terminate the agreement even upon visa europe material, uncured breach. although we have a call right to acquire visa europe, we can exercise that right under only extremely limited circumstances. these and other features of the licenses granted under the agreement may also raise issues concerning the characterization of the licenses for purposes of tax treatment of entry into the licenses and payments received thereunder. 32 table of contents in some instances, as in the case of cybersource, visa europe may have the right to control the activities of newly acquired entities within visa europe territory. in any event, visa europe exclusive license rights in europe may hinder our ability to acquire new entities or to operate them effectively. any inconsistency in the payment processing services and products that we can provide could negatively affect cardholders from visa europe using cards in the countries we serve or our cardholders using cards in visa europe region. if visa europe makes us acquire all of its outstanding stock, we will incur substantial costs and may suffer a material and adverse effect on our operations and net income. we have granted visa europe a put option requiring us to purchase all outstanding capital stock from its members if exercised. we will incur a substantial financial obligation if visa europe exercises this option. visa europe may do so at any time. we may need to obtain third-party financing in order to meet our obligation, by either borrowing funds or selling stock. an equity offering, or the payment of part of the exercise price in our stock, would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. we would have only 285 days to pay the exercise price. sufficient financing might not be available to us within that time on reasonable terms. see note 3 visa europe to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. if visa europe exercises the put option, we may encounter difficulties in integrating visa europe business and systems into our existing operations. if we cannot do so quickly and cost-effectively, the integration could divert the time and attention of senior management, disrupt our current operations and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, we would become subject to the many regulations of the european union that govern the operations of visa europe, including any regulatory disputes. we are required to record quarterly any change in the fair value of the put option. we record these adjustments through our consolidated statements of operations. consequently, the adjustments affect our reported net income and earnings per share. these quarterly adjustments and their resulting impact on our reported statements of operations could be significant. the existence of these changes could adversely affect our ability to raise capital or the costs involved in raising it. if we cannot remain organizationally effective, we will be unable to address the opportunities and challenges presented by our strategy and by the increasingly challenging competitive, economic and regulatory environment. since our reorganization in october 2007, we have increasingly centralized our management and operations. for us to succeed, we must effectively integrate our operations, actively work to ensure consistency throughout our organization, and avoid u.s.-centric thinking. if we fail to do so, we may be unable to expand as rapidly as we plan, and the results of our expansion may be unsatisfactory. in addition, the current competitive, economic and regulatory environment will require our organization to adapt rapidly and nimbly to new opportunities and challenges. we will be unable to do so if we do not make important decisions quickly enough, define our appetite for risk specifically enough, implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes smoothly enough and communicate roles and responsibilities clearly enough. we may be unable to attract and retain key management and other key employees. our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success and difficult to replace. we may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms competitive with the rest of the market. failure to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or failure to develop and implement a viable succession plan, could result in inadequate depth of institutional knowledge or skill sets, adversely affecting our business. 33 table of contents acquisitions or strategic investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to successfully finance, partner with or integrate them. the integration of the recently acquired cybersource corporation will take time and resources that would otherwise have been available for other acquisitions. we will be subject to the terms of the exclusive license granted to visa europe in most acquisitions and major investments that involve countries in the visa europe territory. regulatory constraints, particularly competition regulations, may affect the extent to which we can maximize the value of acquisitions or investments. furthermore, the integration of any acquisition or investment may divert management time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenues. moreover, our cash reserves contract to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition or investment in cash. although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of and investments in businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions and investments. future sales of our class a common stock, or the expiration or waiver of transfer restrictions on our class b and c common stock, could result in dilution to holders of shares of our existing class a common stock, adversely affecting their rights and depressing the market price of our class a common stock. the market price and voting power of our class a common stock could decline because of increases in the number of such shares outstanding. the market price of our class a common stock may also suffer from the perception that such an increase could occur, such as upon the issuance or conversion of securities convertible to shares of our class a common stock. specifically, on march 25, 2011, all of our restricted shares of class c common stock will become transferable at once. if funds are released from escrow after the resolution of the litigation covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, the value of our class a common stock will be diluted. under our retrospective responsibility plan, funds still in the escrow account after the resolution of all covered litigation will be released back to us. at that time, each share of class b common stock will become convertible into an increased number of shares of class a common stock, benefitting the holders of class b common stock. this in turn will result in dilution of the interest in visa inc. held by the holders of class a common stock. the amount of this dilution will depend on the amount, if any, of the funds released from the escrow account and the market price of our class a common stock near the time the funds are released. shares of class a common stock acquired by visa members and certain affiliates and competitors convert automatically into shares of class c common stock, which have limited voting rights and may be subject to restrictions on transfer. shares of class a common stock acquired by a visa member, an affiliate of a visa member or any person that is a competitor or its affiliate, in each case to the extent acting as a principal investor, convert automatically into shares of class c common stock. some shares of class c common stock cannot be transferred until march 25, 2011. in addition, holders of shares of our class c common stock do not have the right to vote on certain matters, including the election of directors. 34 table of contents holders of our shares of our class b and c common stock have voting rights concerning certain significant corporate transactions, and their interests in our business may be different from those of holders of our class a common stock. although their voting rights are limited, holders of shares of our class b and c common stock can vote on certain significant transactions. these include a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business and any other vote required by law. the holders of these shares may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class a common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with those of the holders of class a common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a takeover attempt or a change in control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and delaware law could delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. for instance, except for limited exceptions, no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class a common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance. in addition, except for common stock issued to a member in connection with our reorganization or shares issuable on conversion of such common stock, shares held by a competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may not exceed 5% of our total outstanding shares on an as-converted basis. our ability to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock in the future is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. since august 2008, we have paid cash dividends quarterly on our class a, b and c common stock. any future payment of dividends will depend upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows. however, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. payment of future dividends, if any, would be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, covenants in our debt instruments and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. if, because of these factors, we cannot generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may be unable to make payments of dividends of our common stock. furthermore, no dividend may be declared or paid on any class or series of common stock unless an equivalent dividend is contemporaneously declared and paid on each other class of common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. 64 table of contentsrisk factors regulatory risks increasing regulation of interchange reimbursement fees and other business practices may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. interchange reimbursement fees represent a transfer of value among the financial institutions participating in a payments network such as ours. in connection with transactions initiated with products in our payments system, interchange reimbursement fees are typically paid to issuers: the financial institutions that issue visa cards to cardholders. the fees are typically paid by acquirers: the financial institutions that offer visa network connectivity and payments acceptance services to merchants. we refer to a system like ours, in which a payment network intermediates between the issuer and the acquirer, as an open-loop system. we generally do not receive any portion of interchange reimbursement fees in a transaction. they are, however, a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. consequently, changes to these fees could substantially affect our revenues and the pace or breadth of overall payment electronification. we have historically set default interchange reimbursement fees in the united states and many other geographies. however, in certain jurisdictions, interchange rates and related practices are subject to continuing or increased government regulation. the reform act has already resulted in limitations on our ability to establish default interchange rates in the debit area in the united states. see the reform act may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . in addition, interchange rates have become subject to continued or increased scrutiny elsewhere, and regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions have reviewed or are reviewing these rates. these jurisdictions include australia, canada, brazil and south africa. if we cannot set default interchange rates at optimal levels, issuers and acquirers may find our payments system unattractive. this could materially lower overall transaction volume or slow growth of 18 table of contents transactions in the future. it could also materially increase the attractiveness of closed-loop payments systems-those with direct connections to both merchants and consumers-and other forms of payment. in addition, issuers could begin to charge new or higher fees to consumers. this could make our card programs less desirable and reduce our transaction volumes and profitability. acquirers could elect to charge higher discount rates to merchants, regardless of the level of visa interchange, leading merchants not to accept cards for payment or to steer visa cardholders to alternate payment systems. in addition, issuers and acquirers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card programs by seeking incentives from us or a reduction in the fees that we charge. any of the foregoing could have a substantial, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. regulations that prohibit us from contracting with clients or requiring them to use only our network, or denying them the option of selecting only our network, may decrease the number of transactions we process and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. in order to ensure our cardholders have a consistent experience, we promote certain practices to ensure that visa-branded cards are processed over our network. we have agreements with some issuers under which they agree to issue certain payment cards that use only the visa network or receive incentives if they do so. in addition, certain issuers of some debit products choose to include only the visa network. we refer to these various practices as network exclusivity. in addition, certain network or issuer rules or practices may be interpreted as limiting the routing options of merchants when multiple debit networks co-reside on visa debit cards. for example, visa rules require that an acquirer must process authorizations for all international transactions through visanet and that a member must clear international transactions through visanet. the reform act already limits our and issuers ability to impose rules for, or choose various forms of, network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit area. see the reform act may have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . these restrictions and future regulations like them in the united states and elsewhere could cause a material decrease in the number of transactions we process. in order to retain that transaction volume, we might have to reduce the fees we charge to issuers or acquirers, or we might have to increase the payments and other incentives we provide to issuers or acquirers or directly to merchants. any of these eventualities could have a material, adverse affect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. the reform act may have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. as of october 1, 2011, in accordance with the reform act, the federal reserve capped the maximum u.s. debit interchange fee assessed for cards issued by large financial institutions at twenty-one cents plus five basis points, before applying an interim fraud adjustment up to an additional one cent. this amounted to a significant reduction from the average system-wide fees charged previously. the federal reserve has also promulgated regulations requiring issuers to make at least two unaffiliated networks available for processing debit transactions on each debit card. the rules also prohibit us and issuers from restricting a merchant ability to direct the routing of electronic debit transactions over any of the networks that an issuer has enabled to process those transactions. we expect these regulations to adversely affect our u.s. debit business and associated revenues. they will likely create negative pressure on our pricing, reduce the volume and number of u.s. debit payments we process, and diminish associated revenues. 19 table of contents these pressures will likely arise through various channels. a number of our clients may seek fee reductions or increased incentives from us to offset their own lost revenue. some have announced that they may reduce the number of debit cards they issue and reduce investments they make in marketing and rewards programs. some may impose new or higher fees on debit cards or demand deposit account relationships. some may elect to issue fewer cards enabled with visa-affiliated networks. we expect many merchants to use the routing regulations to redirect transactions or steer cardholders to other networks based on lowest cost or other factors. because we may have to re-examine and possibly renegotiate certain of our contracts to ensure that their terms comply with new regulations, these and other clients will have the opportunity to renegotiate terms relating to fees, incentives and routing. in some cases, we may lose placement completely on issuers debit cards. the reform act created a new independent consumer financial protection bureau, with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services and new authority with respect to consumer protection issues, including those pertaining to us to some extent. the bureau future actions may make payment card transactions less attractive to card issuers, consumers and merchants by further regulating disclosures, payment card practices, fees, routing and other matters with respect to credit, debit, and prepaid. some elements of the reform act are vague or lack definition and create the potential for networks to pursue different strategies subject to their interpretation of the regulation. our interpretation may result in our pursuit of strategies less effective than those of our competitors. overall, these regulations and developments arising from the reform act could have a material, adverse affect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. new regulations or legal action in one jurisdiction or of one product segment may lead to new regulations in other jurisdictions or of other products. regulators around the world increasingly note each other approaches to the regulation of the payments industry. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in another. the reform act is one notable such development. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one product segment may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another product. for example, regulations like those affecting debit payments could eventually spread to regulate credit. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another product segment. these include matters like interchange reimbursement fees, network exclusivity, operating regulations and preferred routing agreements. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business. either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, materially and adversely affecting our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in some countries provide resources or protection to selected domestic payment card networks, brands and processing providers. these governments may take this action in order to support these providers. they may also take this action to keep us from entering these countries, to 20 table of contents force us to leave, or to restrict substantially our activities there. for example, the government of china, a significant emerging market, has increasingly tightened its rules requiring use of a domestic network. additionally, governments in some countries may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments entirely in that country. this would prevent us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for our clients. our efforts to effect change in these countries may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brands. regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security could decrease the number of payment cards issued, our payments volume and our revenues. recently, privacy, data use and security have received heightened legislative and regulatory focus in the united states (at the federal and state level) and in other countries. for example, in many jurisdictions consumers must be notified in the event of a data breach. these measures may materially increase our costs and our clients costs. they may also decrease the number of our cards our clients issue. this would materially and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, our failure, or the failure of our clients, to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, litigation and damage to our global reputation and our brands. increased global regulatory focus on the payments industry may result in costly new compliance burdens on our clients and on us, leading to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues. regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. complying with these and other regulations may increase our costs or reduce our revenue opportunities. similarly, the impact of such regulations on our clients may reduce the volume of payments we process. moreover, such regulations could limit the types of products and services that we offer, the countries in which our cards are used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects for future growth, financial condition and results of operations. examples include: data protection and information security. aspects of our operations and business are subject to privacy regulation in the united states and elsewhere. our financial institution clients in the united states are subject to similar requirements under the guidelines issued by the federal banking agencies. in addition, many u.s. states have enacted legislation requiring consumer notification in the event of a security breach. anti-money-laundering , anti-terrorism and sanctions. the u.s.a. patriot act and similar laws in other jurisdictions require us to maint a in an anti-money laundering program. sanctions imposed by the u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control, or ofac, restrict us from dealing with certain countries and parties considered to be connected with money laundering, terrorism or narcotics. non-u.s. visa international members may not be similarly restricted, so in some cases our payments system may be used for transactions in or involving countries or parties subject to ofac-administered sanctions, potentially subjecting us to penalties, reputational damage or loss of business. regulation of the price of credit. many jurisdictions in which our cards are used have new or proposed regulations that could increase the costs of card issuance or decrease the flexibility of card issuers to charge interest rates and fees on credit card accounts. these include the credit card act and proposed regulations under it. they also include proposed changes to the federal truth in lending act, which, if implemented along with regulations required to be 21 table of contents promulgated under the credit card act, could result in a decrease in our payments volume and revenues. increased central bank oversight. several central banks around the world have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the retail electronic payments industry, in some cases designating them as systemically important payment systems. such oversight may lead to additional regulations. these could include new settlement procedures or other operational rules to address credit and operational risks. they could also include new criteria for member participation and merchant access to our payments system. safety and soundness regulation. recent federal banking regulations may make some financial institutions less attracted to becoming an issuer of our cards, because they may be subject to more conservative accounting procedures, increased risk management or higher capital requirements. regulation of internet transactions. proposed legislation in various jurisdictions may make it less desirable or more costly to complete internet transactions using our cards by affecting the legality of those transactions, the law that governs them, their taxation and the allocation of intellectual property rights. litigation risks our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements or final judgments. our retrospective responsibility plan addresses monetary liabilities from settlements of, or final judgments in, the covered litigation, which is described in note 21 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. the retrospective responsibility plan consists of several related mechanisms to fund settlements or judgments in the covered litigation. these include an escrow account funded with a portion of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and potential subsequent offerings of our shares of class a common stock (or deposits of cash to the escrow account in lieu of such offerings), a loss-sharing agreement and a judgment-sharing agreement. in addition, our u.s. members are obligated to indemnify us pursuant to visa u.s.a. certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in accordance with their membership agreements. these mechanisms are unique, complicated, and tiered, and if we cannot use one or more of them, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. the principal remaining covered litigation involves interchange reimbursement fees. since 2005, approximately 55 class actions and individual complaints have been filed on behalf of merchants against us, mastercard and/or other defendants, including certain financial institutions that issue visa-branded payment cards and acquire visa-branded payment transactions in the u.s. we refer to this as the interchange litigation. among other antitrust allegations, the plaintiffs allege that visa setting of default interchange rates violated federal and state antitrust laws. the lawsuits have been transferred to a multidistrict litigation in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of new york. the plaintiffs in the interchange litigation seek damages for alleged overcharges in merchant discount fees as well as injunctive and other relief. the consolidated class action complaint alleges that the plaintiffs estimate that damages will range in the tens of billions of dollars. because these lawsuits were brought under the u.s. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages will be trebled. the allocation of any monetary judgment or a settlement among the defendants is governed by an omnibus agreement dated february 7, 2011. see note 21 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. 22 table of contents the visa portion of a settlement or judgment covered by the omnibus agreement would be allocated in accordance with specified provisions of our retrospective responsibility plan. failure of our retrospective responsibility plan to insulate us adequately from the impact of such settlements or judgments could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows and could even cause us to become insolvent. even if our retrospective responsibility plan covered our monetary liabilities, settlements or judgments in the interchange litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, settlements or judgments in the interchange litigation could include restrictions on our ability to conduct business, which could increase our cost of doing business and limit our prospects for future growth. the retrospective responsibility plan addresses only the covered litigation. the plan does not cover other pending litigation or any litigation that we may face in the future, except for cases that include claims for damages relating to the period prior to our initial public offering that are transferred for pre-trial proceedings or otherwise included in the interchange litigation. in addition, our retrospective responsibility plan covers only the potential monetary liability from settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation. non-monetary settlement terms and judgments in the covered litigation may require us to modify the way we do business in the future. this could adversely affect our revenues, increase our expenses and/or limit our prospects for growth. therefore, even if our retrospective responsibility plan provides us with adequate funding to satisfy our monetary obligations with respect to settlements of, and judgments in, the covered litigation, it may not insulate us from all potential adverse consequences of them. if we are found liable in certain other pending or future lawsuits, we may have to pay substantial damages or change our business practices or pricing structure, which may have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. like many other large companies, we are a defendant in a number of civil actions and investigations alleging violations of competition/antitrust law, consumer protection law, or intellectual property law, among others. examples of such claims are described more fully in note 21 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. some lawsuits involve complex claims that are subject to substantial uncertainties and unspecified damages; therefore, we cannot ascertain the probability of loss or estimate the damages. accordingly, we have not established allowances for such legal proceedings. private plaintiffs often seek class action certification in cases against us. this is particularly so in cases involving merchants and consumers, due to the size and scope of our business. if we are found liable in a large class action lawsuit, such as the united states or canadian merchant class action lawsuits, monetary damages could be significant. see note 21 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. if we are unsuccessful in our defense against any material current or future legal proceedings, we may have to pay substantial damages. we may also have to change our business practices, including by limiting interchange reimbursement fees and by revising our rules about fees charged to consumers who choose to pay with visa. this could limit our payments volume and result in a material and adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations, cash flow, financial conditions, prospects for future growth and overall business and could even cause us to become insolvent. limitations on our business that resulted from litigation may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation. for example, in october 2010, we reached a settlement with the u.s. department of justice, or the doj, 23 table of contents and a number of state attorneys general relating to their investigation of certain visa merchant acceptance practices. in accordance with the resulting consent decree, visa will allow u.s. merchants to offer discounts or other incentives to steer cardholders to a particular form of payment including to a specific network brand or to any card product, such as a non-reward visa credit card. see note 21 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. the settlement does not address surcharging or the setting of default interchange, and does not preclude the doj from pursuing a future investigation of these or other topics. this settlement and other limitations on our business that were the result of settlements of, or judgments in, litigation could limit the fees we charge and reduce our payments volume, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. tax examinations or disputes, or changes in the tax laws applicable to us, could materially increase our tax payments. we exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may decrease their accuracy. we are currently under examination by the u.s. internal revenue service and other tax authorities, and we may be subject to additional examinations in the future. the tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. failure to sustain our position in these matters could result in a material and adverse effect on our cash flow and financial position. in addition, changes in existing laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental u.s. and international tax reform, may also increase our effective tax rate. a substantial increase in our tax burden could have a material, adverse effect on our financial results. see also note 20 income taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. our agreement with visa europe includes indemnity obligations that could expose us to significant liabilities. under our framework agreement with visa europe, we indemnify it for losses resulting from all claims outside its region arising from our or their activities and relating to our or their payments business. this obligation applies even if neither we, nor any of our related parties or agents, participated in the actions giving rise to such claims. such an obligation could expose us to significant liabilities for activities over which we have little or no control. our retrospective responsibility plan would not cover these liabilities. business risks the intense pressure we face on client pricing may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profits. we offer incentives to clients in order to increase payments volume, enter new market segments and expand our card base. these include up-front cash payments, fee discounts, credits, performance-based incentives, marketing support payments and other support. over the past several years, we have increased the use of incentives such as up-front cash payments and fee discounts in many countries, including the united states. in order to stay competitive, we may have to continue to increase our use of incentives. the economic pressures on our clients arising from the reform act have increased this pressure. see the u.s. wall street reform and consumer protection act may have a material adverse impact on our 24 table of contents revenues, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. this pressure may make the provision of certain products and services less profitable, or unprofitable, and materially and adversely affect our operating revenues and profitability. pressure on client pricing also poses indirect risks, presenting the potential for the same adverse effects. if we continue to increase incentives to our clients, we will need to find ways to offset the financial impact by increasing payments volume, the amount of fee-based services we provide or both. we may not succeed in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. in addition, we benefit from long-term contracts with certain clients, including those that are large contributors to our revenue. continued pressure on our fees could prevent us from entering into such agreements in the future on favorable terms. we may also have to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships or comply with regulations. finally, increased pricing pressure enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those surrounding client incentives, and we may not succeed in these efforts. our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer because of intense competition in our industry. the global payments industry is intensely competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment. these include cash, checks and electronic transactions, such as wire transfers and automatic clearinghouse payments. in addition, our payment programs compete against the card-based payments systems of our competitors and private-label cards issued by merchants. the reform act has increased this competitive pressure. some of our competitors may develop substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. they may offer a wider range of programs and services than we do. they may use advertising and marketing strategies that are more effective than ours, achieving broader brand recognition and merchant acceptance than we do. they may develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements than we have. they may also introduce more innovative programs and services than we provide. certain of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures or participate selectively in different market segments. these include domestic networks in the united states, china, canada, australia, and other countries and regions. they may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to new regulatory, technological and other developments. in many cases, these competitors have the support of government mandates that prohibit, limit or otherwise hinder our ability to compete for or otherwise secure transactions within those countries and regions. traditional or non-traditional competitors may put us at a competitive disadvantage by leveraging services or products in areas in which we do not directly compete to win business in areas where we do compete. our clients can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. the risk to maintaining or securing our clients long-term commitments to our products has increased with the reform act restrictions on network exclusivity in the debit sector. most of our larger client relationships are not exclusive. these include those with our largest clients: jpmorgan chase and bank of america. in certain circumstances, our clients may terminate these relationships, sometimes on relatively short notice, and in many cases subject to significant early termination fees. because a significant portion of our operating revenues is concentrated among our largest clients, our operating revenues would decline significantly if we lost one or more of them. this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see note 14 enterprise-wide disclosures and concentration of business to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 in this report. 25 table of contents we expect there to be changes in the competitive landscape in the future. for example: competitors, clients and others may develop products that compete with or replace the value-added services we provide to support our transaction processing; parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position in the payments value chain; participants in the payments industry may merge, form joint ventures or enter into other business combinations that strengthen their existing business propositions or create new, competing payment services; or competition may increase from alternative types of payment services, such as mobile payments services, online payment services and services that permit direct debit of consumer checking accounts or ach payments. our failure to compete effectively in light of any such developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. disintermediation from the payments value chain would harm our business. our position in the payments value chain underpins our business. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate closed-loop payments systems, with direct connections to both merchants and consumers and no intermediaries. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from this business model. the reform act has provided them with increased opportunity to do so. in addition, although they pursue the same or similar lines of business using the same or similar business and commercial models, they have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as operators of multi-party payments systems such as ours. we also run the risk of disintermediation by virtue of increasing bilateral agreements between entities that would rather not use a payment network for processing payments. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. additional consolidation in the banking industry could result in our losing business and create pressure on the fees we charge our clients, materially and adversely affecting our revenues and profitability. the banking industry has recently undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation, which could continue. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in the acquisition of one or more of our largest clients by an institution with a strong relationship with one of our competitors. this could result in the acquired bank visa business shifting to that competitor, resulting in a substantial loss of business to us. in addition, one or more of our clients could merge with or acquire one of our competitors, shifting its payments volume to that competitor. any such transaction could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. continued consolidation in the banking industry would also reduce the overall number of our clients and potential clients and could increase the negotiating power of our remaining clients and potential clients. this consolidation could lead financial institutions to seek greater pricing discounts or other incentives with us. in addition, consolidation could prompt our existing clients to seek to renegotiate their pricing agreements with us to obtain more favorable terms. we may also be adversely affected by price compression should one of our clients absorb another financial institution and qualify 26 table of contents for higher volume-based discounts on the combined volumes of the merged businesses. pressure on the fees we charge our clients caused by such consolidation could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. in addition, the current economic environment could lead some clients to curtail or postpone near-term investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines or take other actions that affect adversely the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these clients. merchants continued focus on the costs associated with payment card acceptance may result in more litigation, regulation, regulatory enforcement and incentive arrangements. we rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our clients to maintain and expand the acceptance of our payment cards. consolidation in the retail industry is producing a group of larger merchants that is having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry. some merchants are seeking to reduce their costs associated with payment card acceptance by lobbying for new legislation and regulatory enforcement and by bringing litigation. if they continue, these efforts could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. we, as well as our clients, negotiate pricing discounts and other incentive arrangements with certain large merchants to increase acceptance and usage of our payment cards. if merchants continue to consolidate, we and our clients may have to increase the incentives provided to certain larger merchants. this could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the cost of these incentives. certain financial institutions have exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. certain financial institutions have longstanding exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards. these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to conduct material amounts of business with them in order to increase our revenues. in addition, these financial institutions may be more successful and may grow more quickly than our clients, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. failure to maintain relationships with our clients, merchant acquirers, merchants and third-party vendors, and the failure of clients to provide services on our behalf, could materially and adversely affect our business. we depend and will continue to depend significantly on relationships with our clients and on their relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not have direct relationships with cardholders. we do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates, if any, or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. as a result, the success of our business has depended significantly on, and will continue to depend on, the continued success and competitiveness of our clients and the strength of our relationships with them. historically, we have not solicited merchants to accept our cards. in the wake of the reform act changes to rules on network exclusivity, we expect to engage in significantly more discussions with merchants and merchant acquirers. we already engage in many co-branding efforts, in which we contract with the merchant, who directly receives incentive funding. we also engage in some amount of merchant acceptance activity. as these and other relationships take on a greater importance for both 27 table of contents merchants and us, our success will increasingly depend on our ability to sustain and grow these relationships. in many countries outside the united states, our clients or other processors authorize, clear and settle most domestic transactions using our payment cards without involving our processing systems. this pattern is increasing with a rise in new systems endorsed by governments. our inability to control the end-to-end processing for cards carrying our brands in these countries may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to ensure the quality of the services supporting our brands. in addition, we depend on third parties to provide various services on our behalf, and to the extent that third-party vendors fail to deliver services, our business and reputation could be impaired. the perception of our company in the marketplace may affect our brands and reputation, which are key assets of our business. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain consumer cardholders and corporate clients to visa-branded products depends highly upon the external perceptions of our company and our industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our clients that change the perception of our brands. from time to time, our clients may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be subject to challenge, which may materially and adversely affect our business. further, visa europe has very broad latitude to operate the visa business in and use our brands and technology within visa europe region, in which we have only limited control over the operation of the visa business. visa europe is not required to spend any minimum amount of money promoting or building the visa brands in its region, and the strength of the visa global brands depends in part on the efforts of visa europe to maintain product and service recognition and quality in europe. finally, adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. unprecedented economic events in financial markets around the world have and are likely to continue to affect our clients, merchants and cardholders, resulting in a material and adverse impact on our prospects, growth, profitability, revenue and overall business. unprecedented economic events that began in 2008 continue to affect the financial markets around the world. these include decreased consumer spending, increased unemployment, deflation, increased savings, decreased consumer debt, excess housing inventory, lowered government spending, decreased export activity, continued challenges in the credit environment, continued equity market volatility, additional government intervention, bank instability, downgrades of sovereign, bank and commercial debt, political issues affecting the handling of national debt, and the uncertainty arising from new government policies. this economic turmoil has affected the economies of the united states and other mature economies in particular. the fragility of the current situation would be exacerbated if additional negative economic developments were to arise. these could include, among other things, policy missteps, exhaustion of u.s. and other national economic stimulus packages, defaults on government debt in the united states, europe or elsewhere, significant increases in oil prices, tax increases, economic turmoil in china, the euro zone or japan, or a significant decline in the commercial real estate market. most recently, the economic situation in europe has been particularly unstable, arising from the real prospect of a default by greece, and potentially other nations, on their debt obligations, if such a default occurs, or if the measures taken to avert such a default create their own instability, the impact is likely to be global and highly significant. 28 table of contents some existing clients have been placed in receivership or under government administration. many financial institutions are facing increased regulatory and governmental influence, including potential changes in laws and regulations. many of our clients, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands have been directly and adversely affected. our financial results may be negatively affected by actions taken by individual financial institutions or by governmental or regulatory bodies in response to the economic crisis. the severity of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance that have historically been present. as a result, our revenue growth has been and may continue to be negatively affected, or we may be affected, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: depressed consumer and business confidence may decrease cardholder spending. uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our clients businesses may reduce the accuracy of our estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets. our clients may implement cost-reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or additional expense reductions, which may reduce our revenues. our clients may decrease spending for optional or enhanced services, affecting our revenue and reducing cardholders desire to use these products. our clients may increase cardholder fees as a cost-recovery initiative, or as a result of regulatory action, which could decrease our value proposition to consumers, thereby reducing consumers desire to use our products. government intervention or investments in our clients may negatively affect our business with those institutions or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. tightening of credit availability could affect the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. the trading markets for u.s. government securities may be adversely affected by changes in investor sentiment. this could arise from a number of market forces, including, among others, the u.s. government inability to meet its obligations or a possible further downgrade in its debt rating. this in turn could adversely affect the liquidity of our investments, a substantial portion of which are u.s. treasury and government securities. our clients may default on their settlement obligations, including for reasons unrelated to payment card activity, such as mortgage matters. adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect the dollar value of our revenues and payments in foreign currencies. finally, the stock markets have recently demonstrated extreme volatility. additional declines in stock prices or significant instability could cause consumer spending to decline materially. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, growth, revenue, profitability and overall business. 29 table of contents a decline in non-u.s. and cross-border activity and in multi-currency transactions could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as we generate a significant portion of our revenue from such transactions. we generate a significant amount of our revenues from cross-border transactions. our clients pay us fees in connection with cross-border transactions. some of those fees may differ if conversion from the merchant currency to the cardholder billing currency is required. thus, revenue from processing cross-border transactions for our clients fluctuates with cross-border travel and the need for transactions to be converted into a different currency. cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism, natural disasters, the effects of climate change and outbreaks of diseases. a decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. a decline in the need for conversion of currencies might also adversely affect our revenues and profitability. moreover, if our clients decide to increase cardholder fees associated with cross-border transactions, there could be a decline in cardholder spending, since our value proposition to the consumer could be reduced. in addition, visa derives revenue from foreign currency exchange activities that result from our clients settlement in different currencies. a reduction in, or other changes to, multi-currency transactions could decrease the need for or otherwise affect foreign currency exchange activities and adversely affect our revenues. limitations or changes in our ability to set foreign currency exchange rates for multi-currency transactions as result of regulation, litigation, competitive pressures or other reasons may also adversely affect our revenues. transactions outside the united states represent an increasingly important part of our strategy. if we do not maintain consistency in the types of products we provide, the quality of our service and the viability of our brand, we will be unable to continue to grow in those areas. finally, because we are domiciled in the united states, a negative perception of the united states arising from its political or other positions could harm the perception of our company and our brand. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. we risk loss or insolvency if our clients fail to fund settlement obligations we have guaranteed. we indemnify issuers and acquirers for any settlement loss they suffer due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to fund its daily settlement obligations. in certain instances, we may indemnify issuers or acquirers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. this indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. the term and amount of our indemnification obligations are unlimited. concurrent settlement failures involving more than one of our largest clients or several of our smaller clients may exceed our available financial resources, as could systemic operational failures lasting more than a single day. any such failure could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may be unable to recover the amount of such payment. this could expose us to significant losses, materially and adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. some of our clients are composed of groups of financial institutions. some of these clients have elected to limit their responsibility for settlement losses arising from the failure of their constituent financial institutions in exchange for managing their constituent financial institutions in accordance with 30 table of contents our credit risk policy. to the extent that any settlement failure resulting from a constituent financial institution exceeds the limits established by our credit risk policy, we would have to absorb the cost of such settlement failure, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and, potentially, our results of operations. if our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we cannot process transactions efficiently, the perception of our brands and our revenues or operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions or degradation because of processing or other technology malfunction, fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism, climate change or accident. our visibility in the global payments industry may attract terrorists and hackers to conduct physical or computer-based attacks, leading to an interruption in service, increased costs or the compromise of data security. if such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. although we maintain a business continuity program and an information security program to address these risks, we cannot be sure that they will be effective. additionally, we rely on service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. if a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require because of a natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. because of the centrality of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of our brands reliability and materially reduce our revenues or profitability. if we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, reducing our revenues and net income. rapid, significant technological changes are confronting the payments industry. these include developments in smart cards, ecommerce, mcommerce and radio frequency and proximity payment devices, such as contactless cards. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge. these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card products and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, by resistance to change from clients or merchants or by third parties intellectual property rights. our success will depend in part on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. account data breaches involving card data stored, processed or transmitted could adversely affect our reputation and revenues. our clients, merchants, others and we store, process and transmit cardholder account information in connection with our payment cards. in addition, our clients may use third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. breach of the systems storing, processing or transmitting sensitive cardholder data and account information could lead to fraudulent activity involving visa-branded cards, to reputational damage and to claims against us. if we are sued in connection with any material data security breach, we could be involved in protracted litigation. if unsuccessful in defending such lawsuits, we may have to pay damages or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and 31 table of contents profitability. in addition, any reputational damage resulting from an account data breach could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which could have a material adverse effect on our payments volume, revenues and future growth prospects. finally, any data security breach could result in additional regulation, which could materially increase our costs. an increase in fraudulent and other illegal activity involving our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information. they use the information to conduct fraudulent transactions. outsourcing and specialization of functions within the payments system are increasing. as a result, more third parties are involved in processing transactions using our cards. a rise in fraud levels involving our cards, or in misconduct by third parties processing transactions using our cards, could lead to reputational damage to our brands. this could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or lead to greater regulation, which could increase our compliance costs. failure to maintain interoperability between visa inc. and visa europe authorization and clearing and settlement systems could damage the business and global perception of the visa brands. before our reorganization in october 2007, visa europe and we shared authorization, clearing, and settlement systems. visa europe completed and substantially deployed its own systems in the 2010 fiscal year. as a result, visa europe and we will have to ensure that the two systems can process every transaction involving both of our territories, regardless of where it originates. visa europe newly independent system operations could present challenges to our business due to the heightened difficulty of maintaining the interoperability of our respective systems as they diverge over time. failure to authorize or clear and settle inter-territory transactions quickly and accurately could impair the global perception of the visa brands. risks related to our structure and organization we have little ability to control visa europe operations and limited recourse if it breaches its obligations to us. visa europe has very broad rights to operate the visa business in its region under the agreement that governs our relationship. if we want to change a global rule or require visa europe to implement certain changes that would not have a positive return for visa europe and its members, then visa europe is not required to implement that rule or change unless we agree to pay for the implementation costs and expenses that visa europe and its members will incur as a consequence of the implementation. if visa europe fails to meet its obligations, our remedies under this agreement are limited. we cannot terminate the agreement even upon visa europe material, uncured breach. although we have a call right to acquire visa europe, we can exercise that right under only extremely limited circumstances. these and other features of the licenses granted under the agreement may also raise issues concerning the characterization of the licenses for purposes of tax treatment of entry into the licenses and payments received thereunder. in some instances, as in the case of cybersource and playspan, visa europe may have the right to control the activities of newly acquired entities within visa europe territory. in any event, visa 32 table of contents europe exclusive license rights in europe may hinder our ability to acquire new entities or to operate them effectively. any inconsistency in the payment processing services and products that we can provide could negatively affect cardholders from visa europe using cards in the countries we serve or our cardholders using cards in visa europe region. if visa europe makes us acquire all of its outstanding stock, we will incur substantial costs and may suffer a material and adverse effect on our operations and net income. we have granted visa europe a put option requiring us to purchase all outstanding capital stock from its members if exercised. we will incur a financial obligation of several billion dollars or more if visa europe exercises this option. visa europe may do so at any time. we may need to obtain third-party financing in order to meet our obligation, by either borrowing funds or selling stock. an equity offering, or the payment of part of the exercise price in our stock, would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. we would have only 285 days to pay the exercise price. sufficient financing might not be available to us within that time on reasonable terms. see note 2 visa europe to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. if visa europe exercises the put option, we may encounter difficulties in integrating visa europe business and systems into our existing operations. if we cannot do so quickly and cost-effectively, the integration could divert the time and attention of senior management, disrupt our current operations and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, we would become subject to the many regulations of the european union that govern the operations of visa europe, including any regulatory disputes. we are required to record quarterly any change in the fair value of the put option. we record these adjustments through our consolidated statements of operations. consequently, the adjustments affect our reported net income and earnings per share. these quarterly adjustments and their resulting impact on our reported statements of operations could be significant. the existence of these changes could adversely affect our ability to raise capital or the costs involved in raising it. if we cannot remain organizationally effective, we will be unable to address the opportunities and challenges presented by our strategy and by the increasingly challenging competitive, economic and regulatory environment. since our reorganization in october 2007, we have increasingly centralized our management and operations. for us to succeed, we must effectively integrate our operations, actively work to ensure consistency throughout our organization, and incorporate a global perspective into our decisions and processes. if we fail to do so, we may be unable to expand as rapidly as we plan, and the results of our expansion may be unsatisfactory. in addition, the current competitive, economic and regulatory environment will require our organization to adapt rapidly and nimbly to new opportunities and challenges. we may not be able to do so if we do not make important decisions quickly enough, define our appetite for risk specifically enough, execute our strategy seamlessly enough, implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes efficiently enough and communicate roles and responsibilities clearly enough. we may be unable to attract and retain key management and other key employees. our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success and difficult to replace. we may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms competitive with the rest of the market. failure to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or failure to develop and implement a viable succession plan, could result in 33 table of contents inadequate depth of institutional knowledge or skill sets, adversely affecting our business. our chief executive officer contract terminates in march 2013, and we cannot assure that there will be an effective transition to a new ceo when necessary. acquisitions, strategic investments and entry into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to successfully finance, partner with or integrate them. the integration of cybersource, playspan and fundamo, all acquired recently, will take time and resources that would otherwise have been available for other acquisitions. we will be subject to the terms of the exclusive license granted to visa europe in most acquisitions and major investments that involve countries in the visa europe territory. regulatory constraints, particularly competition regulations, may affect the extent to which we can maximize the value of acquisitions or investments. furthermore, the integration of any acquisition or investment may divert management time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenues. moreover, our cash reserves contract to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition or investment in cash. although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of and investments in businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions and investments. with the evolution of technology and the opening of new market segments, we may choose to participate in areas in which we have not engaged in the past, either through acquisition or through organic development. relative inexperience in such businesses requires additional resources and presents an additional degree of risk, which could materially and adversely affect our operations and results. future sales of our class a common stock, or the expiration or waiver of transfer restrictions on our class b stock, could result in dilution to holders of shares of our existing class a common stock, adversely affecting their rights and depressing the market price of our class a common stock. the market price and voting power of our class a common stock could decline because of increases in the number of such shares outstanding. the market price of our class a common stock may also suffer from the perception that such an increase could occur, such as upon the issuance or conversion of securities convertible to shares of our class a common stock. specifically, upon the final resolution of our covered litigation, all class b stock will become transferable at once. if funds are released from escrow after the resolution of the litigation covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, the value of our class a common stock will be diluted. under our retrospective responsibility plan, funds still in the escrow account after the resolution of all covered litigation will be released back to us. at that time, each share of class b common stock will become convertible into an increased number of shares of class a common stock, benefitting the holders of class b common stock. this in turn will result in dilution of the interest in visa inc. held by the holders of class a common stock. in this case, the amount of funds released and the market price of our class a common stock will determine the extent of the dilution. 34 table of contents holders of our shares of our class b and c common stock have voting rights concerning certain significant corporate transactions, and their interests in our business may be different from those of holders of our class a common stock. although their voting rights are limited, holders of shares of our class b and c common stock can vote on certain significant transactions. these include a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business and any other vote required by delaware law. the holders of these shares may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class a common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with those of the holders of class a common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a takeover attempt or a change in control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and delaware law could delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. for instance, except for limited exceptions, no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class a common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance. in addition, except for common stock issued to a member in connection with our reorganization or shares issuable on conversion of such common stock, shares held by a competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may not exceed 5% of our total outstanding shares on an as-converted basis. our ability to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock in the future is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. since august 2008, we have paid cash dividends quarterly on our class a, b and c common stock. any future payment of dividends will depend upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows. however, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. payment of future dividends, if any, would be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, covenants in our debt instruments and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. if, because of these factors, we cannot generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may be unable to make payments of dividends of our common stock. furthermore, no dividend may be declared or paid on any class or series of common stock unless an equivalent dividend is contemporaneously declared and paid on each other class of common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. 65 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss arising from adverse changes in market factors. our exposure to financial market risks results primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. aggregate risk exposures are monitored on an ongoing basis. foreign currency exchange rate risk although most of our activities are transacted in u.s. dollars, we are exposed to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations are primarily related to adverse changes in the u.s. dollar value of revenues generated from foreign currency-denominated transactions and adverse changes in the u.s. dollar value of payments in foreign currencies, primarily for expenses at our non-u.s. locations. we manage these risks by entering into foreign currency forward contracts that hedge exposures of the variability in the u.s. dollar equivalent of anticipated non-u.s. dollar denominated cash flows. our foreign currency exchange rate risk management program reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. the aggregate notional amounts of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding in our exchange rate risk management program were $739 million and $651 million at september 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. the aggregate notional amount of $739 million outstanding at september 30, 2012 , is fully consistent with our strategy and treasury policy aimed at reducing foreign exchange risk below a predetermined and approved threshold. however, actual results could materially differ from our forecast. the effect of a hypothetical 10% change of the u.s. dollar is estimated to create an additional fair value gain or loss of approximately $40 million on our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at september 30, 2012 . see note 13 derivative financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements. we are also subject to foreign currency exchange risk in daily settlement activities. this risk arises from the timing of rate setting for settlement with clients relative to the timing of market trades for balancing currency 52 table of contents positions. risk in settlement activities is limited through daily operating procedures, including the utilization of visa settlement systems and our interaction with foreign exchange trading counterparties. interest rate risk our investment portfolio assets are held in both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate securities. these assets are included in cash equivalents, short-term available-for-sale investments and long-term available-for-sale investments. investments in fixed-rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. the fair value of fixed-rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. additionally, a falling-rate environment creates reinvestment risk because as securities mature, the proceeds are reinvested at a lower rate, generating less interest income. historically, we have been able to hold investments until maturity. our operating results or cash flows have not been, and are not expected to be, materially impacted by a sudden change in market interest rates. the fair value balances of our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2012 and 2011 were $3.0 billion and $1.2 billion , respectively. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would create an estimated change in fair value of approximately $42 million on our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2012 . the fair value balances of our adjustable-rate debt securities were $923 million and $764 million at september 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. visa europe put option we have a liability related to the put option with visa europe which is recorded at fair value at september 30, 2012 . we are required to record any change in the fair value of the put option on a quarterly basis. in the determination of the fair value of the put option at september 30, 2012 , we have assumed a 40% probability of exercise by visa europe at some point in the future and a p/e differential, at the time of exercise, of approximately 1.9 x. the use of a probability of exercise 5% higher than our estimate would have resulted in an increase of approximately $18 million in the value of the put option. an increase of 1.0x in the assumed p/e differential would have resulted in an increase of approximately $84 million in the value of the put option. see liquidity and capital resources and critical accounting estimates above. pension plan risk our u.s. defined benefit pension plan assets were $973 million and $783 million and projected benefit obligations were $990 million and $839 million at september 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. we will continue to monitor the performance of pension plan assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of our contribution to the plan for fiscal 2013 , which we expect to make in september 2013 . 53 table of contentsrisk factors regulatory risks additional regulation of interchange reimbursement rates may have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . we generally do not receive any revenue related to interchange reimbursement fees in a purchase transaction as those fees are paid by the acquirers to the issuers. they are, however, a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. consequently, changes to these fees can substantially affect our revenues and the pace or breadth of overall payment electronification. we have historically set default debit interchange reimbursement rates in the united states and many other geographies. however, the dodd-frank act has limited our ability to establish default debit interchange reimbursement rates in the united states. see the dodd-frank act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . interchange reimbursement rates have also become subject to continued or increased government regulation elsewhere, and regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions have reviewed or are reviewing these rates. in certain jurisdictions, interchange reimbursement rates, our operating regulations and related practices are subject to continuing or increased government regulation. these jurisdictions include, for example, australia, canada, brazil, europe, india, malaysia, russia and south africa. when we cannot set default interchange reimbursement rates at optimal levels, issuers and acquirers find our payments system less attractive. this lowers overall transaction volume and slows growth of transactions. it also may increase the attractiveness of other payments systems like competitors' closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. in addition, we believe some issuers are charging new or higher fees to consumers. in some instances, this makes visa-branded cards and payment products less desirable and reduces our transaction volumes and profitability. some acquirers elect to charge higher discount rates to merchants, regardless of the level of visa interchange reimbursement rate, leading merchants not to accept visa-branded cards or payment products for payment or to steer account holders to alternate payment systems. in addition, some issuers and acquirers have obtained, and may continue to obtain, incentives from us and reductions in the rates that we charge in an effort to reduce the expense of their card programs. for these reasons, additional regulation of interchange reimbursement rates may have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. additional regulations that prohibit us from contracting with clients or requiring them to use only our network, or that deny them the option of selecting only our network, may decrease the number of transactions we process, and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . in order to provide account holders a consistent experience and transparency into the network processing their transactions, we promote certain practices to ensure that visa-branded cards are processed over our network. we have historically had agreements with some issuers under which they agree to issue certain payment cards that use 11 table of contents only the visa network or receive incentives if they do so. in addition, certain issuers of some products have historically chosen to include only our network. we refer to these various practices as network exclusivity. in addition, certain network or issuer rules or practices may be viewed as limiting the routing options of merchants when multiple debit networks co-reside on visa debit cards. for example, visa's rules require that an acquirer must process authorizations for all international transactions through visanet and that a member must clear international transactions through visanet. these are commonly referred to as routing rules. the dodd-frank act already limits our and issuers' ability to adopt network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit area. see the dodd-frank act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . additional regulations like the dodd-frank act in the united states and elsewhere could materially decrease the number of transactions we process. in order to retain that transaction volume, we would have to reduce the fees we charge to issuers or acquirers or increase the payments and other incentives we provide to issuers, acquirers or merchants. any of these eventualities could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. the dodd-frank act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . as of october 1, 2011, in accordance with the dodd-frank act, the federal reserve capped the maximum u.s. debit interchange reimbursement rate charged by large financial institutions at twenty-one cents plus five basis points, before applying an interim fraud adjustment up to an additional one cent. this amounted to a significant reduction from the average system-wide fees charged previously. the federal reserve also issued regulations requiring issuers to make at least two unaffiliated networks available for processing debit transactions on each debit card. the rules also prohibit us and issuers from restricting a merchant's ability to direct the routing of electronic debit transactions over any of the networks that an issuer has enabled to process those transactions. in july 2013, a federal court invalidated these rules, finding that the federal reserve improperly considered certain costs in setting a cap on the maximum u.s. debit interchange reimbursement rate and that issuers must make at least two unaffiliated networks available for processing each electronic debit transaction, regardless of authorization method. the federal reserve has appealed that ruling. these regulations have adversely affected our u.s. debit business and associated revenues by creating negative pressure on our pricing, reduced the volume and number of u.s. debit payments we process, and diminished associated revenues. although we believe we have absorbed the principal impact of the regulations as issued in october 2011, our business could continue to be affected, including if the federal reserve must issue new regulations. these pressures have arisen through various channels. a number of our clients obtained fee reductions or increased incentives from us to offset their own lost revenue. some reduced the number of debit cards they issued and investments they made in marketing and rewards programs. some imposed new or higher fees on debit cards or demand deposit account relationships. some elected to issue fewer cards enabled with visa-affiliated networks. many merchants have used the routing regulations to redirect transactions or steer account holders to other networks based on lowest cost or other factors. other clients and merchants are likely to take similar actions in the future. the dodd-frank act created an independent consumer financial protection bureau, with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services and new authority with respect to consumer protection issues, including those pertaining to us to some extent. these actions may make payment card transactions less attractive to issuers, consumers and merchants by further regulating disclosures, payment card practices, fees, routing and other matters with respect to credit, debit and prepaid cards. some elements of the dodd-frank act lack definition and create the potential for networks to pursue different strategies subject to their interpretation of the rules. our interpretation may result in a pursuit of strategies that may be less effective than those of our competitors. overall, the regulations and developments arising from the dodd-frank act could continue to have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. new laws or regulations in one jurisdiction or of one product offering may lead to new laws or regulations in other jurisdictions or of other product offerings . 12 table of contents regulators around the world increasingly note each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments industry. consequently, a development in one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in another. the dodd-frank act and the european union commission ' draft interchange regulation are developments with such potential. similarly, new laws and regulations involving one product offering may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to other product offerings. for example, regulations affecting debit payments could eventually spread to credit payments. the risks created by a new law or regulation have the potential to be replicated and to negatively affect our business in another region or in other product offerings. as a result, we may face differing rules and regulations in matters like interchange reimbursement rates, network exclusivity, preferred routing, dynamic currency conversion, point of sale transaction rules and practices, and operating regulations that may differ from country to country or by product offering. if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty rapidly adjusting our product offerings, services and fees, and other important aspects of our business in the various regions. in addition, adverse developments, regulations and litigation with respect to our industry or another industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which may materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brands . governments in some countries provide resources or protection to select their domestic payment card networks, brands and processors. these governments may impose regulatory requirements that favor domestic providers or that mandate domestic payments processing be done entirely in that country. for example, china unionpay continues to enjoy advantages over international networks, remains the sole processor of domestic transactions and operates the sole domestic acceptance mark in china. these actions could impede us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for our financial institution clients in those countries and substantially restrict our activities there. these actions could also force us to leave countries where we presently have activity and keep us from entering new markets. although we are trying to effect change in these countries, we may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brands. regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security could decrease the number of visa-branded cards issued, our payments volume and our revenues . privacy, data use and security continue to receive heightened legislative and regulatory focus in the united states and elsewhere. for example, in many jurisdictions consumers must be notified in the event of a data breach and those jurisdictions who have these laws are continuing to increase the circumstances and the breadth of these notices. these measures may increase our and our clients' costs. they may also decrease the number of visa-branded cards our clients issue. this would materially and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, our failure or the failure of our clients to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, litigation and damage to our global reputation and our brands. evolving and increased global regulatory focus on the payments industry may result in costly new compliance burdens on our clients and on us, leading to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues . regulation of the payments industry has evolved and increased significantly. examples include: data protection and information security . aspects of our operations and business are subject to privacy and data protection regulation in the united states and elsewhere. our financial institution clients in the united states are subject to similar requirements under the guidelines issued by the federal banking agencies. in addition, many u.s. states have enacted legislation requiring consumer notification in the event of a security breach. regulatory compliance . we are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the bank secrecy act, as amended, including the usa patriot act of 2001. in addition, we are also subject to the economic and trade sanctions programs administered by ofac that prohibit or restrict dealings with certain countries, their governments and, in certain circumstances, their nationals, as well as with 13 table of contents specifically-designated individuals and entities such as narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations. some of our clients located outside of the united states may not be subject to these same laws, regulations and sanctions, and, as a result, may initiate transactions that, while permissible in their countries, are not permissible in the united states. we have policies, procedures, systems and controls in place to identify and address potentially impermissible transactions but in the event these controls should fail, we could be subject to penalties, reputational damage and loss of business. regulation of the price of credit . many jurisdictions in which visa-branded cards are used have regulations that could increase the costs of card issuance or decrease the flexibility of issuers to charge market-based interest rates and fees on credit card accounts. these include the credit card act of 2009 in the united states and other proposed regulations under it. proposed changes to the truth in lending act of 1968, if implemented along with regulations required to be promulgated under the credit card act, could result in a decrease in our payments volume and revenues. increased central bank oversight. several central banks around the world have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the retail electronic payments industry, in some cases considering designating them as "systemically important payment systems" or "critical infrastructure." any such oversight may lead to additional regulations by central banks and other government regulators. these could include new settlement procedures, cyber security requirements or other operational rules to address credit and operational risks. they could also include new criteria for financial institution client participation and merchant access to our payments system. safety and soundness regulation . recent banking regulations enacted in the united states and elsewhere may make some financial institutions less attracted to becoming an issuer of visa-branded cards, because they may be subject to increased risk management or higher capital requirements. regulation of internet transactions . proposed legislation in various jurisdictions may make it less desirable or more costly to complete internet transactions using visa-branded cards by affecting the legality of those transactions, the laws that govern the transactions, their taxation or the allocation of various intellectual property rights. money transfer regulations. as we expand our product offerings, we may become subject to u.s. state money transfer regulations, which could increase our regulatory oversight and compliance costs. complying with these and other regulations increases our costs and can reduce our revenue opportunities. our programs and policies are designed to comply with anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and sanctions regulations, and we continue to review and enhance them. but, as regulations continue to evolve and regulatory oversight continues to increase, we cannot guarantee that our programs and policies will be deemed compliant by all applicable regulatory authorities. the impact of such regulations on our clients and on us may increase compliance costs and reduce the volume of payments we process. moreover, such regulations can limit the types of products and services that we offer, the countries in which visa-branded cards are used and the types of account holders and merchants who can obtain or accept visa-branded cards. any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects for future growth, financial condition and results of operations. litigation risks our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements or final judgments . our retrospective responsibility plan addresses monetary liabilities from settlements of, or final judgments in, the covered litigation, which is described in note 3 retrospective responsibility plan to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. the retrospective responsibility plan consists of several related mechanisms to fund settlements or judgments in the covered litigation. these include an escrow account funded with a portion of the net proceeds of our ipo and any subsequent offerings of our shares of class a common stock (or deposits of cash into the escrow account in lieu of such offerings). they also include a loss sharing agreement and a judgment sharing agreement. in addition, our u.s. financial institution clients are obligated to indemnify us pursuant to visa u.s.a. inc.'s certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in accordance with their membership agreements. these mechanisms are unique, complicated and tiered, and if we cannot use one or more of them, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows, or even cause us to become insolvent. 14 table of contents the principal remaining covered litigation involves interchange reimbursement rates. since 2005, approximately fifty-five complaints, all but thirteen of which were styled as class actions, have been filed on behalf of merchants against us, mastercard and/or other defendants, including certain financial institutions that issue visa-branded payment cards and acquire visa-branded payment transactions in the united states. we refer to this as the interchange multidistrict litigation. among other allegations, the plaintiffs have alleged that visa's setting of default interchange reimbursement rates violated federal and state antitrust laws. the lawsuits were transferred to a multidistrict litigation in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of new york. the plaintiffs in the interchange multidistrict litigation seek damages for alleged overcharges in merchant discount rates as well as injunctive and other relief. the consolidated class action complaint alleges that the plaintiffs estimate that damages will range in the tens of billions of dollars. because these lawsuits were brought under the u.s. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages would be trebled. the allocation of any monetary judgment or a settlement among the defendants is governed by an omnibus agreement dated february 7, 2011. see note 3 retrospective responsibility plan and note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. visa's portion of a settlement or judgment covered by the omnibus agreement would be allocated in accordance with specified provisions of our retrospective responsibility plan. on october 19, 2012, we signed settlement agreements in these cases, which included an agreement to pay approximately $4.0 billion to the class plaintiffs. the court granted preliminary approval of the settlement agreement with the class plaintiffs on november 9, 2012. however, the agreement with the class plaintiffs remains subject to final court approval and the adjudication of any appeals. we cannot assure that the court will provide final approval of the settlement or that we will win any appeals. on december 10, 2012, visa paid approximately $4.0 billion from the litigation escrow account into a settlement fund established pursuant to the definitive class settlement agreement. a number of merchants have filed opt-out cases in various federal district courts. some of these cases have already been transferred by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation for coordinated or consolidated pre-trial proceedings to mdl 1720 and will be covered litigation under the retrospective responsibility plan. it is possible that some opt-out cases may not be transferred or otherwise included in mdl 1720 and will not be covered litigation. see note 3 retrospective responsibility plan to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report . failure of our retrospective responsibility plan to insulate us adequately from the impact of such settlements or judgments could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. such a failure could even cause us to become insolvent. the retrospective responsibility plan addresses only the covered litigation. the plan generally does not cover other pending litigation or any litigation that we may face in the future, except for cases that include claims for damages relating to the period prior to our ipo that are transferred for pre-trial proceedings or otherwise included in the interchange multidistrict litigation. see if we are found liable in other pending or future lawsuits, we may have to pay substantial damages . in addition, non-monetary settlement terms and judgments in the covered litigation may require us to modify the way we do business. see limitations on our business resulting from litigation may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability . therefore, even if our retrospective responsibility plan provides us with adequate funding to satisfy our obligations with respect to monetary liabilities from settlements of, and judgments in, the covered litigation, it will not insulate us from the monetary impact of pending or future litigation. if we are found liable in other pending or future lawsuits, we may have to pay substantial damages . like many other large companies, we are a defendant in a number of civil actions and investigations alleging violations of competition/antitrust law, consumer protection law or intellectual property law, among others. examples of such claims are described more fully in note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. some lawsuits involve complex claims that are subject to substantial uncertainties and unspecified damages; therefore, we cannot ascertain the probability of loss or estimate our liability. accordingly, we have not established allowances for such legal proceedings. particularly in cases involving merchants and consumers, private plaintiffs often seek class action certification in cases against us due to the size and scope of our business. if we are found liable in a large class action lawsuit, such as the u.s. or canadian merchant class action lawsuits, monetary damages could be significant. see note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. 15 table of contents if we are unsuccessful in our defense against any material pending or future legal proceedings, we may have to pay substantial damages. this could result in a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition and could even cause us to become insolvent. limitations on our business resulting from litigation may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability . certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation. we may also have to change our business practices in response to pending or future litigation. for example, under the settlement agreement in the interchange multidistrict litigation, we have agreed, among other things, to permit merchants to add surcharges to credit transactions in certain circumstances. these and other settlements of, or judgments in, past, pending and future litigation could force us to limit the rates we charge, revise our rules about rates charged to consumers who use visa-branded payment products, or make other modifications to our business. these modifications could materially and adversely affect our payments volume, revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. tax examinations or disputes, or changes in the tax laws applicable to us, could materially increase our tax payments . we exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may decrease their accuracy. we are currently under examination by the u.s. internal revenue service and other tax authorities, and we may be subject to additional examinations in the future. relevant tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. failure to sustain our position in these matters could result in a material, adverse effect on our cash flow and financial position. in addition, changes in existing laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental u.s. and international tax reform, may also increase our effective tax rate. a substantial increase in our tax burden could have a material, adverse effect on our financial results. see also note 19 income taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. we have limited rights to enforce our agreement with visa europe, which includes indemnity obligations that could expose us to significant liabilities . in the event visa europe fails to meet its obligations under the framework agreement, our remedies are limited. we are unable to terminate the agreement even upon visa europe's material, uncured breach. we also have a call option to acquire visa europe, which can be triggered only under extremely limited circumstances. see note 2 visa europe to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. visa europe is obligated to indemnify visa inc. and visa international service association ("visa international") in connection with the european competition proceedings, in our opinion, including payment of any fines that may be imposed. however, visa europe has expressed an "initial" view that it is not obligated to indemnify visa inc. or visa international for any claim in the european competition proceedings, including claims asserted in both the european commission matter and the u.k. merchant litigation. if visa europe continues in its refusal to indemnify us and we cannot enforce the indemnity, we could be exposed to significant liabilities which would not be covered under our retrospective responsibility plan. see note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. in addition, under the framework agreement, we may be required to indemnify visa europe for losses resulting from all claims outside its region arising from our or their actions relating to the payments business. this obligation applies even if neither we nor any of our related parties or agents engaged in the actions giving rise to such claims. the indemnity obligation could expose us to significant liabilities for activities over which we have little or no control. our retrospective responsibility plan would not cover these liabilities. business risks the intense pressure we face on client pricing may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profits . in order to stay competitive, we offer incentives to clients to increase payments volume, enter new market segments and expand their visa-branded card base. these include up-front cash payments, fee discounts, credits, performance-based incentives, marketing and other support payments. we have continued to increase the use of incentives such as up-front cash payments and fee discounts in many countries, including the united states. in 16 table of contents addition, we offer incentives to certain merchants or acquirers to win routing in situations where our products are co-resident with other networks and merchants have a choice of network routing options. the economic pressures on our clients arising from the dodd-frank act have also increased our use of incentives. see the dodd-frank act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . as a result, the provision of certain products and services may be less profitable or unprofitable, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profits. pressure on client pricing also poses additional challenges for our business. if we continue to increase incentives to our clients, we will need to find ways to offset the financial impact by increasing payments volume, increasing the amount of fee-based services we provide or both. we may not succeed in doing so, particularly, in the current regulatory environment. in addition, we benefit from long-term contracts with certain clients, including those that are large contributors to our revenue. continued pressure on our fees could prevent us from maintaining such agreements in the future on the same or favorable terms. we may also have to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships or comply with regulations. finally, increased pricing pressure enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those surrounding client incentives, and we may not succeed in these efforts. intense competition in our industry may cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects for future growth to suffer . the global payments industry is intensely competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment. these include cash, checks, and electronic and mobile transactions. in addition, our open-loop payments network competes against other alternate payment systems such as closed-loop systems. the dodd-frank act has increased this competitive pressure. some of our competitors may develop substantially greater technology or have greater financial resources. they may offer a wider range of programs, products and services than we do, including more innovative ones. they may use advertising and marketing strategies that are more effective than ours, achieving broader brand recognition and merchant acceptance. they may also develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements. certain of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures or participate selectively in different market segments. these include domestic networks in the united states, china, canada and australia. they may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to new regulatory, technological and other developments. in many cases, these competitors have the support of government mandates that prohibit, limit or otherwise hinder our ability to compete for or otherwise secure transactions within those countries and regions. traditional or nontraditional competitors may put us at a competitive disadvantage by leveraging services or products in areas in which we do not directly compete to win business in areas where we do compete. our clients can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. the risk to maintaining or securing our clients' long-term commitments to our products has increased with the dodd-frank act's restrictions on network exclusivity in the debit sector. we do not have exclusivity with our largest clients such as jpmorgan chase and bank of america. in certain circumstances, our clients may terminate these relationships on relatively short notice despite significant early termination fees. because a significant portion of our operating revenues is concentrated among our largest clients, our operating revenues would decline significantly if we lost one or more of our clients. this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see note 13 enterprise-wide disclosures and concentration of business to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. we expect there to be changes in the competitive landscape in the future. for example: competitors, clients and others may develop products that compete with or replace the value-added services we provide to support our transaction processing; parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position in the payments value chain; we may be asked to develop or customize certain aspects of our payment services for use by our customers, processors or other third parties; 17 table of contents participants in the payments industry may merge, form joint ventures or enter into other business combinations that strengthen their existing business propositions or create new, competing payment services; competition may increase from alternate types of payment services, such as mobile payment services, ecommerce payment services and services that permit direct debit of consumer checking accounts or ach payments; or new players and intermediaries in the value chain may direct the payment decision - making or impair the value of the services we provide. our failure to compete effectively in light of any such developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, revenues, results of operations and prospects for future growth. disintermediation from the payments value chain would harm our business . our position in the payments value chain is key to our business. some of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternate payments systems, operate closed-loop payments systems, with direct connections to both merchants and consumers without any intermediaries. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from this business model. regulatory actions such as the dodd-frank act may provide them with increased opportunity to do so. in addition, although other competitors are pursuing similar lines of business or adopting similar commercial models, they have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as operators of multi-party payments systems such as ours. we also run the risk of disintermediation by virtue of increasing bilateral agreements between entities that would rather not use a payment network for processing payments. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. additional consolidation in the banking industry could result in us losing business and create pressure on the fees we charge our clients, which could materially and adversely affect our business, revenues, results of operations and prospects for future growth . additional consolidation in the banking industry may result in the acquisition of one or more of our largest clients by an institution with a strong relationship with one of our competitors or with one of our competitors directly. this could result in the acquired financial institution's visa business shifting to a competitor, resulting in a substantial loss of business to us. additional consolidation in the banking industry could also reduce the overall number of new and existing clients and could increase their negotiating power. this consolidation could lead new financial institution clients to seek greater pricing discounts or other incentives with us. in addition, more consolidation could prompt our existing clients to seek to renegotiate their pricing agreements with us to obtain more favorable terms. we may also be adversely affected by price compression should one of our clients absorb another financial institution and qualify for higher volume-based discounts on the combined volumes of the merged businesses. pressure on the fees we charge our clients caused by such consolidation could materially and adversely affect our business, revenues, results of operations and prospects for future growth. merchants' continued focus on the costs associated with payment card acceptance may result in more litigation, regulation, regulatory enforcement, incentive arrangements and other initiatives . we rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our clients to maintain and expand the acceptance of visa-branded payment cards. consolidation in the retail industry is producing a group of larger merchants that is having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry. some merchants have sought to reduce their costs associated with payment card acceptance by lobbying for new legislation and regulatory enforcement and by filing lawsuits. if they continue, we may face increased compliance and litigation expenses. we also face competitive pressures on pricing. we and our clients negotiate pricing discounts and other incentive arrangements with certain large merchants to increase acceptance and usage of visa-branded payment cards. if merchants continue to consolidate, we and our clients may have to increase the incentives provided to certain larger merchants. some merchants also continue to invest in their own payment solutions, using both traditional and new technology platforms. examples include closed-loop payment systems that are specific to a single merchant or multi-merchant solutions like the merchant customer exchange, which is designed for a mobile 18 table of contents platform and has many merchant participants. such programs may offer unique or specialized benefits to consumers, including discounts or customized offers. if merchants are able to drive broad consumer adoption and usage, it could adversely impact our transaction volume. all of these factors could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the cost of these incentives. certain financial institutions have exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues . certain financial institutions have longstanding exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards. these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to conduct material amounts of business with them. in addition, these financial institutions may be more successful and may grow more quickly than our existing clients, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and prevent us from growing our business and revenues. failure to maintain relationships with issuers, acquirers, merchants and account holders, and the failure of our financial institution clients to provide services on our behalf could materially and adversely affect our business . we depend and will continue to depend significantly on relationships with our financial institution clients and on their relationships with account holders and merchants to support and to compete effectively for our programs and services. we do not issue cards, extend credit to account holders or determine the interest rates or other fees charged to account holders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these competitive card features for their customers. in the wake of the dodd-frank act's changes to the network exclusivity rules, we have engaged and will continue to engage in significantly more discussions with merchants, acquirers and processors. we already engage in many co-branding efforts, in which we contract with merchants, who directly receive incentive funding from us. we also engage with merchants, acquirers and processors to provide funding to promote routing and acceptance growth. as these and other relationships become more prevalent and take on a greater importance to our business, our success will increasingly depend on our ability to sustain and grow these relationships. outside the united states, some governments only permit their domestic processing, which prohibits us from overseeing the end-to-end processing of the transactions. therefore, we depend on our close working relationships with our clients in these regions to effectively manage the processing of transactions involving visa-branded cards. our inability to oversee the end-to-end processing for cards carrying our brands in these countries may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to ensure the quality of the services supporting our brands. in addition, we depend on third parties to provide various services associated with our payments network on our behalf, and to the extent that such third-party vendors fail to perform or deliver adequate services, our business and reputation could be impaired. negative perception of our company in the marketplace may affect our brands and reputation, which are key assets of our business . our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain account holders and financial institution clients to visa-branded products depends highly upon the external perceptions of our company and our industry's quality of service, corporate responsibility, use and protection of account holder data, regulatory compliance, financial condition and other factors. negative perception or publicity, particularly in light of the rapid, widespread use of social media channels, could cause damage to our brands and reputation. our business may also be affected by actions taken by our clients, other third parties or circumstances that are outside our control: our clients may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as adverse creditor practices. our limited control over the quality of service and promotion of our brands in europe could affect our brands and reputation globally. while visa europe has very broad latitude to use our brands and 19 table of contents technology within its region, visa europe is not required to spend any minimum amount of money conducting research on brand performance, promoting or maintaining the strength of our brands. we may be associated with adverse developments with respect to our industry, and with new rules and regulations concerning human rights conditions, our corporate responsibility regarding those conditions and resulting disclosure requirements. any negative perception of the united states arising from its political, economic, social or other positions could harm the perception of our company and our brands globally by associating visa with those positions. any of these factors could require us to take on additional liabilities and costs, result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny, and materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. unprecedented economic events in financial markets around the world have affected and are likely to continue to affect our clients, merchants and account holders, and may potentially impact our prospects, profitability, revenue and overall business . the current threats to economic growth include geopolitical instability in the middle east, which could affect oil prices, economic fragility in the eurozone and in the united states, potential reduction or tapering of bond purchases by the u.s. federal reserve, higher interest rates hurting the housing markets, persistently weak job creation, political discord, spending cuts and debt defaults. while there continues to be some improvements in advanced economies, emerging economies continue to suffer with slower growth. consumer spending continues to be impacted from consumer debt levels, excess housing inventory, deflation, changes in savings rates, continued equity market volatility, decreased export activity, lowered government spending and additional government intervention. furthermore, continued challenges in the credit environment, bank instability, downgrades of sovereign, bank and commercial debt, political issues affecting the handling of national debt, and the uncertainty arising from new government policies all must be considered. the fragility of the current situation would be exacerbated if additional negative economic developments or crises were to arise around the world. these include defaults on government debt, exhaustion of national economic stimulus packages, significant increases in oil prices, tax increases, a significant decline in the commercial real estate market and policy missteps. most recently, the economic situations in the united states and various countries in europe have been particularly unstable, arising from the real prospect of debt defaults. if such defaults occur, or if the measures taken to avert such defaults create their own instability, economic turmoil is likely to result, and the impact is likely to be global and highly significant. the volatility of the current economic environment in advanced and emerging economies and the responses by financial institutions and governments may create new risks or increase the impact of existing ones. these include the following: depressed consumer and business confidence may continue to decrease account holder spending. uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our clients' businesses may reduce the accuracy of our estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets. our clients may implement cost-reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing budgets or increase requests for greater incentives or reduced fees from us, which may reduce our revenues. our clients may decrease spending for optional or enhanced services, affecting our revenue and reducing account holders' desire to use these products. our clients may increase account holder fees as a cost-recovery initiative, or as a result of regulatory action, decreasing their value proposition to consumers and reducing consumers' desire to use our products. government intervention or investments in our clients may negatively affect our business with those institutions or otherwise alter their business decisions. 20 table of contents tightening of credit availability could affect the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. the u.s. government's inability to meet its obligations or a possible further downgrade in the u.s. debt rating could adversely affect the liquidity of our investments, a substantial portion of which are in u.s. treasury and government securities. our clients may default on their settlement obligations, including for reasons unrelated to payment card activity, such as mortgage loan commitments. adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect the dollar value of our revenues and payments in foreign currencies. the current economic environment could lead some clients to curtail or postpone near-term investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines, modify fees and loyalty programs, or take other actions that adversely affect the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these clients. declines in stock prices or significant instability could cause consumer spending to decline materially. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, growth, revenue, profitability and overall business. a decline in non-u.s. and cross-border activity and in multi-currency transactions could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as we generate a significant portion of our revenue from such transactions . we generate a significant amount of our revenues from cross-border transactions, and our clients pay us fees in connection with them. some of those fees differ when conversion from the merchant's currency to the issuer's billing currency is required. thus, revenue from processing cross-border transactions for our clients fluctuates with cross-border activity and the need for transactions to be converted into a different currency. in addition, visa derives revenue from foreign currency exchange activities that result from our clients' settlement in different currencies. a reduction in multi-currency transactions may reduce the need for foreign currency exchange activities and adversely affect our revenues. limitations or changes in our ability to set foreign currency exchange rates for multi-currency transactions as a result of regulation, litigation, competitive pressures or other reasons may also adversely affect our revenues. cross-border travel may be adversely affected by global geopolitical, economic, social and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism, social or political instability, natural disasters, effects of climate change and outbreaks of diseases. the need for conversion of currencies declines as cross-border travel is impacted, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. moreover, if our clients decide to change practices (e.g., prohibit certain transactions or increase account holder fees associated with cross-border transactions) there could be a decline in account holder spending because their value proposition to the consumer could be reduced. transactions outside the united states represent an increasingly important part of our strategy, which we hope will continue to grow. however, a decline in non-u.s. and cross-border activity and multi-currency transactions will decrease the number of cross-border transactions we process and our revenues and profitability may be materially and adversely affected. we risk loss or insolvency if our clients fail to fund settlement obligations for which we have provided indemnifications . we indemnify issuers and acquirers for any settlement loss they suffer due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to fund its settlement obligations. in certain instances, we may indemnify issuers or acquirers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. this indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. while the term and amount of our indemnification obligations have no limit, our exposure under the indemnification is restricted to the amount of unsettled visa payment transactions at any point in time. concurrent settlement failures involving more than one of our largest clients, several of our smaller clients or systemic operational failures lasting more than a single day could cause us to exceed our available financial resources. any such failure could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of 21 table of contents operations. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may be unable to recover the amount of such payment. this could expose us to significant losses, and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we estimate settlement exposure under the indemnity based on the sum of three inputs. the first is average daily volumes during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle plus a safety margin. the second is four months of rolling average chargebacks volume. the third is the total balance for outstanding visa travelers cheques. we generally guarantee the payment of any validly issued visa travelers cheque that has been negotiated in good faith and properly presented for payment in the event that the cheque is not honored by its issuing institution. additionally, from time to time, we review and revise our risk management methodology and inputs as necessary. see note 11 settlement guarantee management to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. some of our clients are composed of groups of financial institutions. some of these clients have elected to limit their responsibility for settlement losses arising from the failure of their constituent financial institutions in exchange for managing their constituent financial institutions in accordance with our credit risk policy. to the extent that any settlement failure resulting from a constituent financial institution exceeds the limits established by our credit risk policy, we would have to absorb the cost of such settlement failure, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flow. if we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative payment programs and services or with new laws and regulations, the use of our products, our revenues and net income could decline . rapid, significant technological changes continue to confront the payments industry. these include developments in smart cards, ecommerce, mobile, and radio frequency and proximity payment devices, such as contactless cards. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. in addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge. these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, new laws and regulations, resistance to change from clients or merchants or third parties' intellectual property rights. our success will depend in part on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. if our transaction processing systems are disrupted or compromised, the perception of our brands, and our revenues or operating results could be materially and adversely affected . our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions or degradation because of processing or other technology malfunctions, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in long-distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, effects of climate change or other catastrophic events. in addition, our visibility in the global payments industry may attract terrorists and hackers to conduct physical or computer-based attacks. the latter could include computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial-of-service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing. any of these incidents could result in a degradation or disruption of our services or damage to our properties, equipment and data. they could also compromise data security. see account data breaches involving card or other data processed, stored or transmitted by third parties or by us could adversely affect our reputation and revenues . if such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. finally, potential and actual attacks could also result in increased costs, both for recovery and for prevention against future attacks. additionally, we rely on service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. if a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require because of a natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. because of the centrality of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of our brands' reliability and materially reduce our revenues or profitability. 22 table of contents account data breaches involving card or other data processed, stored or transmitted by third parties or by us could adversely affect our reputation and revenues . our clients, merchants, other service providers and we process, store or transmit account holder information in connection with visa-branded cards and payment products. in addition, our clients may use third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. breach of the systems processing, storing or transmission of sensitive account holder data and other information could lead to fraudulent activity involving visa-branded cards, reputational damage and claims against us. if we are sued in connection with any material data security breach, we could be involved in protracted litigation. if unsuccessful in defending such lawsuits, we may have to pay damages or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. in addition, any reputational damage resulting from an account data breach at one or more of our clients, merchants or other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of visa-branded cards, which could have a material adverse impact on our payments volume, revenues and future growth prospects. finally, any data security breach could result in additional regulation, which could materially increase our compliance costs. an increase in fraudulent or other illegal activity involving visa-branded cards or payment products could lead to reputational damage to our brands and reduce the use and acceptance of visa-branded cards or payment products . criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture account holder information. they use this information to conduct fraudulent transactions and to engage in other forms of illegal activities involving our payment products. outsourcing and specialization of functions within the payments system are increasing. as a result, more third parties are involved in processing transactions using visa-branded cards or payment products. a rise in fraud levels and other illegal activities involving visa-branded cards or payment products could lead to reputational damage to our brands. this could reduce the use and acceptance of visa-branded cards and payment products, or lead to greater regulation, which could increase our compliance costs and materially and adversely affect our payments volume and revenues. failure to maintain interoperability with visa europe's systems could damage the business and global perception of the visa brands . visa and visa europe maintain mostly separate authorization, clearing and settlement systems. as a result, we have to ensure that the two systems can process every transaction involving both of our territories, regardless of where it originates. visa europe's independent system operations could present challenges to our business due to increasing costs and difficulty in maintaining the interoperability of our respective systems. any inconsistency in the payment processing services and products between visa europe and us could negatively affect account holders from visa europe using payment products in the countries we serve or our account holders using payment products in visa europe's region. failure to authorize, clear and settle inter-territory transactions quickly and accurately could harm our business and impair the global perception of our brands. structural and organizational risks due to the nature of our relationship and the terms we have agreed to with visa europe, we have little ability to control its operations in its region, and as a result, we may experience added costs and challenges in operating our business . visa europe's exclusive license of our trademarks and technologies under the framework agreement gives us little ability to control and oversee visa europe's operations in its region. if we want to change a global rule or to implement certain changes that may be viewed as unfavorable to visa europe and its members, visa europe is not required to implement the changes unless we agree to pay for the associated costs. this may result in added costs and expenses to our business. furthermore, the licenses granted under the framework agreement may raise licensing, payment and associated tax treatment concerns. visa europe may hinder our ability to acquire new businesses or to operate them effectively in its region. if the acquired business has operations in visa europe's region, visa europe may play a significant part in influencing our ongoing operational decisions and costs there. finally, visa europe may undertake operational and litigation strategies, including, but not limited to, our ongoing litigation in the u.k. and our ongoing case with the european commission, that may adversely impact our business and reputation globally. if visa europe makes us acquire all of its outstanding stock under its put option, we are likely to incur substantial costs and may suffer a material and adverse effect on our operations and net income . 23 table of contents we have granted visa europe a put option, which visa europe can exercise at any time and which would require us to purchase all outstanding capital stock from visa europe's members within 285 days. we are likely to incur a financial obligation of several billion dollars or more and may need to obtain third-party financing in order to meet our obligation through the issuance of either debt or equity. an equity offering, or the payment of part of the exercise price with our stock, would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. sufficient financing might not be available to us within that time on reasonable terms. see note 2 visa europe to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. we may also encounter difficulties in integrating visa europe's business and systems into our existing operations. if we cannot do so quickly and cost-effectively, the integration could divert the time and resources of senior management, disrupt our current operations and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, we would become subject to any ongoing or future regulatory disputes as a result of eu regulations that govern the operations of visa europe. we are required to record any change in the fair value of the put option on a quarterly basis. we record these adjustments through our consolidated statements of operations. consequently, the adjustments affect our reported net income and earnings per share. these quarterly adjustments and their resulting impact on our reported statements of operations could be significant. the existence of these changes in the fair value of the put option could adversely affect our ability to raise capital and increase any associated costs. if we cannot remain organizationally effective, we will be unable to address the opportunities and challenges presented by our strategy and the increasingly challenging competitive, economic and regulatory environment . we continue to centralize our management and operations. for us to succeed organizationally, we must effectively integrate our operations, actively work to ensure consistency throughout our enterprise, and incorporate a global perspective into our decisions and processes. if we fail to do so, we may be unable to expand as rapidly as we plan, and the results of our expansion may be unsatisfactory. in addition, if we are unable to make decisions quickly, assess our risks, execute our strategy, and implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes, as needed, we may not be successful in this competitive, economic and regulatory environment. we may be unable to attract and retain key management and other key employees . our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success and difficult to replace. we may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms competitive with the rest of the market. failure to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or failure to develop and implement a viable succession plan, could result in inadequate depth of institutional knowledge or skill sets by key management and other key employees, which could adversely affect our business. acquisitions, strategic investments and entries into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations . although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to successfully finance, partner with or integrate them. we are also subject to the terms of the exclusive license granted to visa europe in most acquisitions and major investments that involve countries in visa europe's territory, which will impact our ability to expand or conduct business in those regions. regulatory constraints, particularly competition regulations, may also affect the extent to which we can maximize the value of acquisitions or investments. furthermore, the integration of any acquisition or investment will take time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. we may spend time and money on acquisitions or investments that do not increase our revenues. although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of and investments in businesses, products and technologies and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that they will be successful. with the evolution of technology and the opening of new market segments, we may choose to participate in areas in which we have not engaged in the past, either through acquisitions or through organic development. these include digital, ecommerce and mobile payments. our recent entry into these businesses requires additional 24 table of contents resources and presents an additional degree of risk, which could materially and adversely affect our operations and results. future sales of our class a common stock, or the end of transfer restrictions on our class b common stock, could result in dilution to holders of our existing class a common stock, which could adversely affect their rights and depress the market price of our class a common stock . the market price and voting power of our class a common stock could decline because of increases in the number of such shares outstanding. the market price of our class a common stock may also suffer from the perception that such an increase could occur, such as upon the issuance or conversion of certain securities to shares of our class a common stock under the retrospective responsibility plan. specifically, upon the final resolution of our covered litigation, all class b common stock will become convertible into class a common stock. if funds are released from escrow after the resolution of the litigation covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, the value of our class a common stock will be diluted . under our retrospective responsibility plan, funds still in the escrow account after the resolution of all covered litigation will be released back to us. at that time, each share of class b common stock will become convertible into shares of class a common stock, benefiting the holders of class b common stock. this in turn will result in dilution of the interest of holders of class a common stock. the amount of funds released and the market price of our class a common stock will determine the extent of the dilution. holders of our class b and c common stock have voting rights concerning certain significant corporate transactions, and their interests in our business may be different from those of holders of our class a common stock . although their voting rights are limited, holders of our class b and c common stock can vote on certain significant transactions. these include a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business and any other vote required under delaware law. the holders of these shares may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class a common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with holders of class a common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and under delaware law could delay or prevent a takeover attempt or a change in control . provisions contained in our current certificate of incorporation, in our current bylaws and under delaware law could delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable. for instance, except for limited exceptions, no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class a common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance. in addition, except for common stock previously issued in connection with our reorganization to visa members, as defined in our current certificate of incorporation, no competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may hold more than 5% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis. our ability to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock in the future is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows . since august 2008, we have paid cash dividends quarterly on our class a, b and c common stock. the payment of dividends, if any, is subject to the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including, but not limited to, our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, covenants in our debt instruments and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. if, as a result of these factors, we cannot generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to pay dividends to our stockholders. furthermore, if a dividend is declared or paid, an equivalent amount must be paid on each class or series of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss arising from adverse changes in market factors. our exposure to financial market risks results primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. aggregate risk exposures are monitored on an ongoing basis. foreign currency exchange rate risk although most of our activities are transacted in u.s. dollars, we are exposed to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations are primarily related to adverse changes in the u.s. dollar value of revenues generated from foreign currency-denominated transactions and adverse changes in the u.s. dollar value of payments in foreign currencies, primarily for expenses at our non-u.s. locations. we manage these risks by entering into foreign currency forward contracts that hedge exposures of the variability in the u.s. dollar equivalent of anticipated non-u.s. dollar denominated cash flows. our foreign currency exchange rate risk management program reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. the aggregate notional amounts of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding in our exchange rate risk management program, including contracts not designated for cash flow hedge accounting, were $1.3 billion and $739 million at september 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. the aggregate notional amount outstanding at september 30, 2013 , is fully consistent with our strategy and treasury policy aimed at reducing foreign exchange risk below a predetermined and approved threshold. however, actual results could materially differ from our forecast. the effect of a hypothetical 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar is estimated to create an additional fair value gain or loss of approximately $85 million on our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at september 30, 2013 . see note 1 summary of significant accounting policies and note 12 derivative financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements. we are also subject to foreign currency exchange risk in daily settlement activities. this risk arises from the timing of rate setting for settlement with clients relative to the timing of market trades for balancing currency positions. risk in settlement activities is limited through daily operating procedures, including the utilization of visa settlement systems and our interaction with foreign exchange trading counterparties. 47 table of contents interest rate risk our investment portfolio assets are held in both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate securities. these assets are included in cash equivalents and short-term or long-term available-for-sale investments. investments in fixed-rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. the fair value of fixed-rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. additionally, a falling-rate environment creates reinvestment risk because as securities mature, the proceeds are reinvested at a lower rate, generating less interest income. historically, we have been able to hold investments until maturity. neither our operating results or cash flows have been, nor are expected to be, materially impacted by a sudden change in market interest rates. the fair value balances of our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2013 and 2012 were $3.5 billion and $3.0 billion , respectively. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would create an estimated change in fair value of approximately $38 million on our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2013 . the fair value balances of our adjustable-rate debt securities were $1.1 billion and $923 million at september 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. visa europe put option we have a liability related to the put option with visa europe which is recorded at fair value at september 30, 2013 . we are required to record any change in the fair value of the put option on a quarterly basis. in the determination of the fair value of the put option at september 30, 2013 , we have assumed a 40% probability of exercise by visa europe at some point in the future and a p/e differential, at the time of exercise, of approximately 1.9 x. the use of a probability of exercise 5% higher than our estimate would have resulted in an increase of approximately $18 million in the value of the put option. an increase of 1.0x in the assumed p/e differential would have resulted in an increase of approximately $84 million in the value of the put option. see liquidity and capital resources and critical accounting estimates above. pension plan risk our u.s. defined benefit pension plan assets were $1.1 billion and $973 million and projected benefit obligations were $897 million and $990 million at september 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. we will continue to monitor the performance of pension plan assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of our contribution to the pension plan for fiscal 2014 , if any, which would be made in september 2014. 48 table of contentsrisk factors regulatory risks additional regulation of interchange reimbursement rates may have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . we generally do not receive any revenue related to interchange reimbursement fees in a purchase transaction as those fees are paid by the acquirers to the issuers. they are, however, a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. consequently, changes to these fees can substantially affect our revenues and overall payments volume. we have historically set default debit interchange reimbursement rates in the united states and many other geographies. in the united states, the dodd-frank act has limited our ability to establish default debit interchange reimbursement rates. see the dodd-frank act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . interchange reimbursement rates have also become subject to continued or increased government regulation elsewhere, and regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions have reviewed or are reviewing these rates. in certain jurisdictions, interchange reimbursement rates, our operating regulations and related practices, are subject to continuing or increased government regulation. these jurisdictions include, for example, australia, canada, brazil, europe, india, mexico, malaysia, russia and south africa. when we cannot set default interchange reimbursement rates at optimal levels, issuers and acquirers may find our payments system less attractive. it may increase the attractiveness of other payments systems like competitors' closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. in addition, as a result of such regulations, we believe some issuers are charging new or higher fees to consumers. in certain instances, 11 table of contents some acquirers elect to charge higher discount rates to merchants, regardless of the level of visa interchange reimbursement rate, leading merchants not to accept visa-branded cards or payment products or to steer account holders to alternate payment systems or forms of payment. in addition, some issuers and acquirers have obtained, and may continue to obtain, incentives from us and reductions in the rates that we charge in an effort to reduce the expense of their card programs. for these reasons, additional regulation of interchange reimbursement rates may make visa-branded cards and payment products less desirable, reduce our overall transaction volumes, and have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. additional regulations that prohibit us from contracting with clients or requiring them to use only our network, or that deny them the option of selecting only our network, may decrease the number of transactions we process, and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . in order to provide account holders a consistent experience and transparency into visanet, we promote certain practices to ensure that visa-branded cards are processed over our network. we have historically had agreements with some issuers under which they agree to issue certain payment cards that use only the visa network or receive incentives if they do so. in addition, certain issuers of some products have historically chosen to include only our network. we refer to these various practices as network exclusivity. in addition, certain network or issuer rules or practices may be viewed as limiting the routing options of merchants when multiple debit networks co-reside on visa debit cards. for example, visa's operating regulations require that all authorization, clearance and settlement of international transactions must be done through visanet. these are commonly referred to as routing rules. the dodd-frank act already limits our and issuers' ability to adopt network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit area. see the dodd-frank act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . additional regulations like the dodd-frank act in the united states and elsewhere could materially decrease the number of transactions we process. in order to retain that transaction volume, we may reduce the fees we charge to issuers or acquirers or increase the payments and other incentives we provide to issuers, acquirers or merchants. any of these outcomes could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. the dodd-frank act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . as of october 1, 2011, in accordance with the dodd-frank act, the federal reserve capped the maximum u.s. debit interchange reimbursement rate charged by large financial institutions at twenty-one cents plus five basis points, before applying an interim fraud adjustment up to an additional one cent. this amounted to a significant reduction from the average system-wide fees charged previously. the federal reserve also issued regulations requiring issuers to make at least two unaffiliated networks available for processing debit transactions on each debit card. the rules also prohibit us and issuers from restricting a merchant's ability to direct the routing of electronic debit transactions over any of the networks that an issuer has enabled to process those transactions. on march 21, 2014, the court of appeals for the d.c. circuit reversed a district court ruling invalidating these rules and agreed with the federal reserve, except for a single issue related to the interchange cost calculation which was referred back to the federal reserve for reconsideration. on august 18, 2014, the plaintiff merchants filed a petition for review of the appeals court's decision in the u.s. supreme court, seeking review of a portion of the rules pertaining to the interchange cost calculation. the rules , described above , remain in place while the case is ongoing. these regulations have adversely affected our u.s. debit business and associated revenues by creating negative pressure on our pricing, reduced the volume and number of u.s. debit payments we process, and diminished associated revenues. although we believe we have absorbed the principal impact of the regulations as issued in october 2011, our business could continue to be affected, including if the federal reserve issues new regulations. these pressures have arisen through various channels. other debit networks may become more aggressive in offering merchant cost reductions to win routing preference, which in turn puts more pressure on the business terms offered by visa. a number of our clients obtained fee reductions or increased incentives from us to offset their own lost revenue. some clients elected to issue fewer cards enabled with visa-affiliated networks or reduced the number of debit cards they issued and investments they made in marketing and rewards programs, while others 12 table of contents imposed new or higher fees on debit cards or demand deposit account relationships. many merchants have used the routing regulations to redirect transactions or steer account holders to other debit networks based on lower cost or other factors. other clients and merchants are likely to take similar actions in the future. the dodd-frank act created an independent consumer financial protection bureau, with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services and new authority with respect to consumer protection issues, including those pertaining to us to some extent. these actions may make payment card transactions less attractive to issuers, consumers and merchants by further regulating disclosures, payment card practices, fees, routing and other matters with respect to credit, debit and prepaid cards. some elements of the dodd-frank act lack definition and create the potential for networks to pursue different strategies subject to their interpretation of the rules. our interpretation may result in a pursuit of strategies that may be less effective than those of our competitors. overall, the regulations and developments arising from the dodd-frank act could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. new laws or regulations in one jurisdiction or of one product offering may lead to new laws or regulations in other jurisdictions or of other product offerings . regulators around the world increasingly note each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments industry. consequently, a development in one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in another. the dodd-frank act and the european union commission ' draft interchange regulation are developments with such potential. see note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report . similarly, new laws and regulations involving one product offering may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to other product offerings. for example, regulations affecting debit payments could eventually spread to credit payments. the risks created by a new law or regulation have the potential to be replicated and to negatively affect our business in another region or in other product offerings. as a result, we may face differing rules and regulations in matters like interchange reimbursement rates, network exclusivity, preferred routing, dynamic currency conversion, point of sale transaction rules and practices, and operating regulations that may differ from country to country or by product offering. if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty rapidly adjusting our product offerings, services and fees, and other important aspects of our business in the various regions. in addition, adverse developments, regulations and litigation with respect to our industry or another industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which may materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brands . governments in some countries provide resources to or protection for their domestic payment card networks, brands and processors. these governments may impose regulatory requirements that favor domestic providers or that mandate domestic payments processing be done entirely in that country. in china, for example, unionpay continues to enjoy advantages over international networks, remains the sole processor of domestic transactions and operates the sole domestic acceptance mark. in light of the u.s. and eu sanctions targeting russia ' financial sector, the russian government has modified its national payments systems laws that require, among other things, the creation of a national payment system and local storage of certain transaction data. as a result, international payment brands could be mandated to process russian domestic transactions on the government-owned payment system. additional laws or mandates may be put into place without sufficient notice which may increase our costs and decrease the number of visa-branded cards issued or processed in russia. these actions could impede us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for our financial institution clients in those countries and substantially restrict our activities there. these actions could also force us to leave countries where we presently have activity and keep us from entering new markets. although we are trying to effect change in these countries, we may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brands. 13 table of contents regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security could decrease the number of visa-branded cards issued, our payments volume and our revenues . privacy, data use and security continue to receive heightened legislative and regulatory focus in the united states and elsewhere. for example, in many jurisdictions consumers must be notified in the event of a data breach and those jurisdictions who have these laws are continuing to increase the circumstances and the breadth of these notices. our failure or the failure of our clients to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, litigation and damage to our global reputation and our brands. these measures may increase visa ' and our clients' costs, decrease the number of visa-branded cards our clients issue, and decrease our payments volume and revenue. evolving and increased global regulatory focus on the payments industry may result in costly new compliance burdens on our clients and on us, leading to increased costs, decreased payments volume and a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for further growth and overall business . regulation of the payments industry has evolved and increased significantly. examples include: data protection and information security . aspects of our operations and business are subject to privacy and data protection regulation in the united states and elsewhere. our financial institution clients around the globe are subject to similar requirements under privacy laws and bank regulatory regimes. in addition, many u.s. states have enacted legislation requiring consumer notification in the event of a security breach. regulatory compliance . we are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the u.s. bank secrecy act, as amended, including the usa patriot act of 2001. in addition, we are also subject to the economic and trade sanctions programs administered by ofac that prohibit or restrict dealings with certain countries, their governments and, in certain circumstances, their nationals, as well as with specifically-designated individuals and entities such as narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations. an increase in the number of ofac sanctions, such as those issued in connection with the russia-ukraine conflict, may affect the issuance, acceptance, reputation, and revenues of visa-branded cards. in addition, some of our clients located outside of the united states may not be subject to these same laws, regulations and sanctions, and, as a result, may initiate transactions that, while permissible in their countries, are not permissible in the united states. we have policies, procedures, systems and controls designed to identify and address potentially impermissible transactions. regulation of the price of credit . many jurisdictions in which visa-branded cards are used have regulations that could increase the costs of card issuance or decrease the flexibility of issuers to charge market-based interest rates and fees on credit card accounts. these include the credit card act of 2009 in the united states and other proposed regulations under it, and proposed changes to regulations under the truth in lending act of 1968. increased cfpb scrutiny. the consumer financial protection bureau (the "cfpb") has primary oversight and rule-writing authority over consumer financial products in the united states, including the regulations that apply to credit, debit, and prepaid cards. regulatory changes that impose new requirements on or restrict the terms under which financial products can be offered could increase our clients ' costs and decrease the number of visa-branded payment cards our clients issue. the cfpb also has supervisory and independent examination authority as well as enforcement authority over certain financial institutions , their service providers, and other entities , which could include us due to our processing of credit, debit, and prepaid transactions. increased central bank oversight. several central banks around the world have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the electronic payments industry, in some cases considering designating them as "systemically important payment systems" or "critical infrastructure." any such oversight may lead to additional regulations by central banks and other government regulators. these could include new settlement procedures, cyber security requirements or other operational rules to address credit and operational risks. they could also include new criteria for financial institution client participation and merchant access to our payments system. 14 table of contents safety and soundness regulation . recent banking regulations enacted in the united states and elsewhere may make some financial institutions less likely to become an issuer of visa-branded cards, because they may be subject to increased risk management or higher capital requirements. regulation of internet and mobile transactions . proposed legislation in various jurisdictions may make it less desirable or more costly to complete internet transactions using visa-branded cards by affecting the legality of those transactions, the laws that govern the transactions, their taxation or the allocation of various intellectual property rights. in addition, new mobile regulatory requirements could impact our business practices. money transfer regulations. as we expand our product offerings, we may become subject to u.s. state money transfer regulations, as well as international payments laws, which could increase our regulatory oversight and compliance costs. complying with these and other regulations increases our costs and can reduce our revenue opportunities. our programs and policies are designed to comply with anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism, sanctions regulations, and other laws, and we continue to enhance them. but, as regulations continue to evolve and regulatory oversight continues to increase, we cannot guarantee that our programs and policies will be deemed compliant by all applicable regulatory authorities. in the event our controls should fail or are found to be out of compliance for other reasons, we could be subject to monetary damages, civil and criminal money penalties, litigation and damage to our global brand reputation. the impact of such regulations on our clients and on us may increase compliance costs and reduce the volume of payments we process. moreover, such regulations can limit the types of products and services that we offer, the countries in which visa-branded cards are used and the types of account holders and merchants who can obtain or accept visa-branded cards. any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our overall business, revenues, prospects for future growth, financial condition and results of operations. litigation risks our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements or final judgments . our retrospective responsibility plan addresses monetary liabilities from settlements of, or final judgments in, the covered litigation, which is described in note 3 retrospective responsibility plan to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. the retrospective responsibility plan consists of several related mechanisms to fund settlements or judgments in the covered litigation. these include an escrow account funded with a portion of the net proceeds of our ipo and any subsequent offerings of our shares of class a common stock (or deposits of cash into the escrow account in lieu of such offerings). they also include a loss sharing agreement, a judgment sharing agreement and an omnibus agreement, as amended. in addition, our u.s. financial institution clients are obligated to indemnify us pursuant to visa u.s.a. inc.'s certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in accordance with their membership agreements. these mechanisms are unique, complicated and tiered, and if we cannot use one or more of them, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows, or even cause us to become insolvent. the principal remaining covered litigation involves interchange reimbursement rates. see note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report . beginning in 2005, a series of complaints (the majority of which were styled as class actions) were filed on behalf of merchants against us, mastercard and/or other defendants, including certain visa member financial institutions. we refer to this as the interchange multidistrict litigation or mdl 1720. among other allegations, the plaintiffs alleged that visa's setting of default interchange reimbursement rates violated federal antitrust laws and, in some cases, certain state unfair competition laws. the lawsuits were transferred to a multidistrict litigation in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of new york. the plaintiffs in mdl 1720 seek damages for alleged overcharges in merchant discount rates as well as injunctive and other relief. the consolidated class action complaint alleges that estimated damages will range in the tens of billions of dollars. because these lawsuits were brought under the u.s. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages would be trebled. the allocation of any monetary judgment or a settlement among the defendants is governed by an omnibus agreement dated february 7, 2011, and amended august 26, 2014. see note 3 retrospective responsibility plan to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. visa's portion of a settlement or judgment 15 table of contents covered by the omnibus agreement would be allocated in accordance with specified provisions of our retrospective responsibility plan. we signed settlement agreements in connection with mdl 1720, which included an agreement to pay approximately $4.0 billion to the class plaintiffs. on january 14, 2014, the court entered a final judgment order approving the settlement, from which a number of objectors have appealed. until the appeals are finally adjudicated, no assurance can be provided that we will be able to resolve the class plaintiffs' claims as contemplated by the settlement agreement. a number of merchants have filed opt-out cases in various federal district courts. all of the cases filed in federal court have been either assigned to the judge presiding over mdl 1720, or have been transferred by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation for inclusion in mdl 1720. the court has entered an order confirming that mdl 1720 includes: (i) all current and future actions transferred to mdl 1720 by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation or other order of any court for inclusion in coordinated or pretrial proceedings; and (ii) all actions filed in the eastern district of new york that arise out of operative facts as alleged in the cases subject to the transfer orders of the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation. cases that are transferred to or otherwise included in mdl 1720 are covered litigation for purposes of the retrospective responsibility plan. it is possible that some opt-out cases may not be transferred or otherwise included in mdl 1720 and will not be covered litigation . failure of our retrospective responsibility plan to insulate us adequately from the impact of such settlements or judgments could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. such a failure could even cause us to become insolvent. the retrospective responsibility plan addresses only the covered litigation. the plan generally does not cover other pending litigation or any litigation that we may face in the future, except for cases that include claims for damages relating to the period prior to our ipo that are transferred for pre-trial proceedings or otherwise included in the interchange multidistrict litigation. see if we are found liable in other pending or future lawsuits, we may have to pay substantial damages . in addition, non-monetary settlement terms and judgments in the covered litigation may require us to modify the way we do business. see limitations on our business resulting from litigation may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability . therefore, even if our retrospective responsibility plan provides us with adequate funding to satisfy our obligations with respect to monetary liabilities from settlements of, and judgments in, the covered litigation, it will not insulate us from the monetary impact of pending or future litigation. if we are found liable in other pending or future lawsuits, we may have to pay substantial damages . like many other large companies, we are a defendant in a number of civil actions and investigations alleging violations of competition/antitrust law, consumer protection law or intellectual property law, among others. examples of such claims are described more fully in note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. some lawsuits involve complex claims that are subject to substantial uncertainties and unspecified damages; therefore, we cannot ascertain the probability of loss or estimate our liability. accordingly, we have not established allowances for such legal proceedings. particularly in cases involving merchants and consumers, private plaintiffs often seek class action certification in cases against us due to the size and scope of our business. if we are found liable in a large class action lawsuit, such as the u.s. or canadian merchant class action lawsuits, monetary damages could be significant. see note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. if we are unsuccessful in our defense against any material pending or future legal proceedings, we may have to pay substantial damages. this could result in a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition and could even cause us to become insolvent. limitations on our business resulting from litigation may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability . certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation. we may also have to change our business practices in response to pending or future litigation. for example, under the settlement agreement in the interchange multidistrict litigation, we have agreed, among other things, to permit merchants to add surcharges to credit transactions in certain circumstances. these and other settlements of, or judgments in, past, pending and future litigation could force us to limit the rates we charge, revise our rules about rates charged to consumers who use visa-branded payment products, or 16 table of contents make other modifications to our business. these modifications could materially and adversely affect our payments volume, revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. tax examinations or disputes, or changes in the tax laws applicable to us, could materially increase our tax payments . we exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may decrease their accuracy. we are currently under examination by, or in disputes with, the u.s. internal revenue service and other tax authorities, and we may be subject to additional examinations or disputes in the future. relevant tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. failure to sustain our position in these matters could result in a material, adverse effect on our cash flow and financial position. in addition, changes in existing laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental u.s. and international tax reform, may also increase our effective tax rate. a substantial increase in our tax burden could have a material, adverse effect on our financial results. see also note 19 income taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. we have limited rights to enforce our agreement with visa europe, which includes indemnity obligations that could expose us to significant liabilities . the relationship between visa and visa europe is governed by the framework agreement. in the event visa europe fails to meet its obligations under the framework agreement, our remedies are limited. we are unable to terminate the agreement even upon visa europe's material, uncured breach. we also have a call option to acquire visa europe, which can be triggered only under extremely limited circumstances. see note 2 visa europe to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. under the framework agreement, we may be required to indemnify visa europe for losses resulting from all claims outside its region arising from our or their actions relating to the payments business. this obligation applies even if neither we nor any of our related parties or agents engaged in the actions giving rise to such claims. the indemnity obligation could expose us to significant liabilities for activities over which we have little or no control. our retrospective responsibility plan would not cover these liabilities. visa europe is obligated to indemnify visa inc. and visa international service association (visa international) in connection with the european competition proceedings, in our opinion, including payment of any fines or damages that may be imposed. however, visa europe has informed us of its position that it is not obligated to indemnify us or visa international for any claim in the european competition proceedings, including claims asserted in either the european commission matter or the filed or unfiled claims in the u.k. merchant litigation. if visa europe continues in its refusal to indemnify us and we cannot enforce the indemnity, we could be exposed to significant liabilities which would not be covered under our retrospective responsibility plan. see note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. business risks the intense pressure we face on client pricing may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profits . pressure on client pricing poses challenges for our business. in order to stay competitive, we offer incentives to our clients to increase payments volume, enter new market segments and expand their visa-branded card base. these include up-front cash payments, fee discounts, credits, performance-based incentives, marketing and other support payments. we have continued to increase the use of incentives such as up-front cash payments and fee discounts in many countries, including the united states. in addition, we offer incentives to certain merchants or acquirers to win routing preference in situations where our products co-reside with other networks and merchants have a choice of network routing options. the economic pressures on our clients arising from the dodd-frank act have also increased our use of incentives. see the dodd-frank act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . as a result, the provision of certain products and services may be less profitable or unprofitable, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profits. if we continue to increase incentives to our clients, we will need to find ways to offset the financial impact by increasing payments volume, increasing the amount of fee-based services we provide or both. we may not succeed in doing so, particularly, in the current regulatory environment. in addition, we benefit from long-term contracts with certain clients, including those that are large contributors to our revenue. continued pressure on our fees could prevent us from maintaining such agreements in the future on the same or favorable terms. we may also 17 table of contents have to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships or comply with regulations. while we may implement cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those surrounding client incentives, we may not be successful in our efforts or they may not offset the decreases in our revenues. intense competition in our industry may cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects for future growth to suffer . the global payments industry is intensely competitive and, as a result, our payment programs compete against all forms of payment. these include cash, checks, electronic, ecommerce, and mobile payments, as well as traditional general purpose card networks. in addition, our open-loop payments network competes against other alternate payment systems such as closed-loop payment systems. the dodd-frank act increased this competitive pressure. some of our competitors may develop substantially better technology or have greater financial resources. they may offer a wider range of programs, products and services than we do, including more innovative ones. they may use advertising and marketing strategies that are more effective than ours, achieving broader brand recognition and merchant acceptance. they may also develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements. certain of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures or participate selectively in different market segments. these include domestic networks in the united states, china, canada and australia. they may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to new regulatory, technological and other developments. in many cases, these competitors have the support of government mandates that prohibit, limit or otherwise hinder our ability to compete for or otherwise secure transactions within those countries and regions. traditional or nontraditional competitors may put us at a competitive disadvantage by leveraging services or products in areas in which we do not directly compete to win business in areas where we do compete. our clients can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. the risk to maintaining or securing our clients' long-term commitments to our products increased with the dodd-frank act's restrictions on network exclusivity in the debit sector. we do not have exclusivity with our largest clients such as jpmorgan chase and bank of america. in certain circumstances, our clients may terminate these relationships on relatively short notice without significant early termination fees. because a significant portion of our operating revenues is concentrated among our largest clients, our operating revenues would decline significantly if we lost one or more of these clients. this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see note 13 enterprise-wide disclosures and concentration of business to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. we expect there to be changes in the competitive landscape in the future. for example: competitors, clients and others may develop products that compete with, impair or replace the value-added services we provide to support our transaction processing; parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position in the payments value chain; we may be asked to develop or customize certain aspects of our payment services for use by our customers, processors or other third parties; participants in the payments industry may merge, form joint ventures or enter into other business combinations that strengthen their existing business propositions or create new, competing payment services; competition may increase from alternate types of payment services, such as mobile payment services, ecommerce payment services and services that permit direct debit of consumer checking accounts or ach payments; new players and intermediaries in the payments value chain may redirect transactions or steer account holders away from our network; or 18 table of contents new services and technologies that we develop may be impacted by industry-wide solutions and standards set by organizations such as emvco, related to emv-chip payment technology, tokenization, or other technologies. our failure to compete effectively in light of any such developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, revenues, results of operations and prospects for future growth. disintermediation from the payments value chain could harm our business . our position in the payments value chain is key to our business. some of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternate payments systems, operate closed-loop payments systems, with direct connections to both merchants and consumers without any intermediaries. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from this business model. regulatory actions such as the dodd-frank act may provide them with increased opportunity to do so. in addition, although other competitors are pursuing similar lines of business or adopting similar commercial models, they have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as operators of multi-party payments systems such as ours. we also run the risk of disintermediation by virtue of increasing bilateral agreements between entities that prefer not to use our payments network for processing payments. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. additional consolidation in the banking industry could result in us losing business and create pressure on the fees we charge our clients, which could materially and adversely affect our business, revenues, results of operations and prospects for future growth . additional consolidation in the banking industry may result in the acquisition of one or more of our largest clients by an institution with a strong relationship with one of our competitors or with one of our competitors directly. this could result in the acquired financial institution's visa business shifting to a competitor, resulting in a substantial loss of business to us. additional consolidation in the banking industry could also reduce the overall number of new and existing clients, who may seek and obtain greater pricing discounts or other incentives from us. in addition, more consolidation could prompt our existing clients to seek to renegotiate their pricing agreements with us to obtain more favorable terms. we may also be adversely affected by price compression should one of our clients absorb another financial institution and qualify for higher volume-based discounts on the combined volumes of the merged businesses. pressure on the fees we charge our clients caused by such consolidation could materially and adversely affect our business, revenues, results of operations and prospects for future growth. merchants' continued focus on the costs associated with payment card acceptance may result in more litigation, regulation, regulatory enforcement, incentive arrangements and other initiatives . we rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our clients to maintain and expand the acceptance of visa-branded payment cards. consolidation in the retail industry is producing a group of larger merchants that is having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry. some merchants have sought to reduce their costs associated with payment card acceptance by lobbying for new legislation and regulatory enforcement and by filing lawsuits. if they continue, we may face increased compliance and litigation expenses. we also face competitive pressures on pricing. we and our clients negotiate pricing discounts and other incentive arrangements with certain large merchants to increase acceptance and usage of visa-branded payment cards. if merchants continue to consolidate, we and our clients may have to increase the incentives provided to certain large merchants. some merchants also continue to invest in their own payment solutions, using both traditional and new technology platforms. examples include closed-loop payment systems that are specific to a single merchant or multi-merchant solutions like the merchant customer exchange, which is designed for a mobile platform and has many merchant participants. such programs may offer unique or specialized benefits to consumers, including discounts or customized offers. if merchants are able to drive broad consumer adoption and usage, it could adversely impact our transaction volume. all of these factors could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the cost of these incentives. 19 table of contents certain financial institutions or merchants have exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue or accept payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues . certain financial institutions or merchants have longstanding exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue or accept payment cards. these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to conduct material amounts of business with them. in addition, these financial institutions or merchants may be more successful and may grow more quickly than our existing clients or merchants, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and prevent us from growing our business and revenues. failure to maintain relationships with issuers, acquirers, merchants and account holders, and the failure of our financial institution clients or third parties to provide services on our behalf could materially and adversely affect our business . we depend and will continue to depend significantly on relationships with our financial institution clients and on their relationships with account holders and merchants to support and to compete effectively for our programs and services. we do not issue cards, extend credit to account holders or determine the interest rates or other fees charged to account holders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these competitive card features for their customers. as a result of the dodd-frank act's changes to the network exclusivity rules, we have engaged and will continue to engage in significantly more discussions with merchants, acquirers and processors. we already engage in many co-branding efforts, in which we contract with merchants, who directly receive incentives from us. we also engage with merchants, acquirers and processors and provide incentives to promote routing preference and acceptance growth. as these and other relationships become more prevalent and take on a greater importance to our business, our success will increasingly depend on our ability to sustain and grow these relationships. outside the united states, some governments only permit local providers to complete domestic processing, which prohibits us from overseeing the end-to-end processing of the transactions. therefore, we depend on our close working relationships with our clients in these regions to effectively manage the processing of transactions involving visa-branded cards. our inability to oversee the end-to-end processing for cards carrying our brands in these countries may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to ensure the quality of the services supporting our brands. in addition, we depend on third parties and our financial institution clients to provide various services associated with our payments network on our behalf, and to the extent that such third-party vendors or our financial institution clients fail to perform or deliver adequate services, our business and reputation could be impaired. negative perception of our company in the marketplace may affect our brands and reputation, which are key assets of our business . our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain account holders and financial institution clients to visa-branded products depends highly upon the external perceptions of our company and our industry's quality of service, use and protection of account holder data, regulatory compliance, financial condition, corporate responsibility and other factors. negative perception or publicity, particularly in light of the rapid, widespread use of social media channels, could cause damage to our brands and reputation. our business may also be affected by actions taken by our clients or other third parties, or by circumstances that are outside of our control: our clients may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as aggressive creditor practices. our limited control over the quality of service and promotion of our brands in europe could affect our brands and reputation globally. while visa europe has very broad latitude to use our brands and technology within its region, visa europe is not required to spend any minimum amount of money conducting research on brand performance, promoting or maintaining the strength of our brands. we may be associated with adverse developments with respect to our industry, and with new rules and regulations concerning human rights conditions, our corporate responsibility regarding those conditions and resulting disclosure requirements. 20 table of contents any negative perception of the united states arising from its political, economic, social or other positions could harm the perception of our company and our brands globally by associating visa with those positions. any of these factors could turn clients and consumers away from our brand and products, require us to take on additional liabilities and costs, result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny, and materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. unprecedented economic events in financial markets around the world have affected and are likely to continue to affect our clients, merchants and account holders, and may potentially impact our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business . the current threats to global economic growth include geopolitical instability in russia, ukraine, the middle east and other oil producing countries, which could affect oil prices, economic fragility in the eurozone and in the united states, higher interest rates hurting the housing market, sluggish job creation, political discord, spending cuts and debt defaults. while there continues to be some improvements in advanced economies, emerging economies continue to suffer with slower growth. consumer spending continues to be impacted from consumer debt levels, elevated housing inventory, deflation, changes in savings rates, continued equity market volatility, decreased export activity, lowered government spending and additional government intervention. furthermore, continued challenges in the credit environment, bank instability, downgrades of sovereign, bank and commercial debt, political issues affecting the handling of national debt, and the uncertainty arising from new government policies could also impact our clients, merchants and account holders. the fragility of the current situation would be exacerbated if additional negative economic developments or crises were to arise around the world. these include defaults on government debt, exhaustion of national economic stimulus packages, significant increases in oil prices, tax increases, a significant decline in the commercial real estate market and policy missteps. most recently, the economic situations in various countries in europe have been particularly unstable, arising from the real prospect of debt defaults. if such defaults occur, or if the measures taken to avert such defaults create their own instability, economic turmoil is likely to result, and the impact is likely to be global and highly significant. the volatility of the current economic environment in advanced and emerging economies and the responses by financial institutions and governments may create new risks or increase the impact of existing ones. these include the following: depressed consumer and business confidence may continue to decrease account holder spending. uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our clients' businesses may reduce the accuracy of our estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets. our clients may implement cost-reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing budgets or increase requests for greater incentives or reduced fees from us. our clients may decrease spending for optional or enhanced services, which could reduce account holders' desire to use these products. our clients may increase account holder fees as a cost-recovery initiative, or as a result of regulatory action, decreasing their value proposition to consumers and reducing consumers' desire to use our products. government intervention or investments in our clients may negatively affect our business in those regions with our financial institution clients. tightening of credit availability could affect the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. the u.s. government's inability to meet its obligations or a possible further downgrade in the u.s. debt rating could adversely affect the liquidity of our investments, a substantial portion of which are in u.s. treasury and government securities. 21 table of contents our clients may default on their settlement obligations, including for reasons unrelated to payment card activity, such as mortgage loan commitments. adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect the dollar value of our revenues and payments in foreign currencies. the current economic environment could lead some clients to curtail or postpone near-term investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines, modify fees and loyalty programs, or take other actions that adversely affect the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these clients. declines in stock prices or significant instability in the securities markets worldwide could cause consumer spending to decline materially. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, growth, revenue, profitability and overall business. a decline in non-u.s. and cross-border activity and in multi-currency transactions could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as we generate a significant portion of our revenue from such transactions . we generate a significant amount of our revenues from cross-border transactions, and our clients pay us fees in connection with them. cross-border transactions arise when the country of origin of the issuer is different from that of the merchant. some of these cross-border transaction fees vary depending on whether the transaction currency is different than the account holder's billing currency as provided to visa by his or her issuer. in addition, visa derives revenue from foreign currency exchange activities that result when our clients settle transactions in different currencies. a reduction in multi-currency transactions may reduce the need for foreign currency exchange activities and adversely affect our revenues. limitations or changes in our ability to set foreign currency exchange rates for multi-currency transactions as a result of regulation, changes to tax policy, litigation, competitive pressures, reduced volatility in currency markets, or other reasons may also adversely affect our revenues. cross-border travel may be adversely affected by global geopolitical, economic, social and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism, social or political instability, natural disasters, effects of climate change and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases. the need for conversion of currencies declines as cross-border travel is impacted. moreover, if our financial institution clients decide to change practices (e.g., prohibit certain transactions or increase account holder fees associated with cross-border transactions) there could be a decline in account holder spending because the value proposition to the consumer could be reduced. transactions outside the united states represent an increasingly important part of our strategy, which we hope will continue to grow. however, a decline in non-u.s. and cross-border activity and multi-currency transactions will decrease the number of cross-border transactions we process and our revenues and profitability may be materially and adversely affected. we risk loss or insolvency if our clients fail to fund settlement obligations for which we have provided indemnifications . we indemnify issuers and acquirers for any settlement loss they suffer due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to fund its settlement obligations in accordance with our operating regulations. in certain instances, we may indemnify issuers or acquirers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. this indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. while the amount of our indemnification obligations has no limit, our exposure under the indemnification is restricted to the amount of unsettled visa payment transactions at any point in time. concurrent settlement failures involving more than one of our largest clients, several of our smaller clients or systemic operational failures lasting more than a single day could cause us to exceed our available financial 22 table of contents resources. any such failure could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may be unable to recover the amount of such payment. this could expose us to significant losses, and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we estimate settlement exposure under the indemnity based on the sum of three inputs. the first is average daily volumes during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle plus a safety margin. the second is four months of rolling average chargebacks volume. the third is the total balance for outstanding visa travelers cheques. we generally guarantee the payment of any validly issued visa travelers cheque that has been negotiated in good faith and properly presented for payment in the event that the cheque is not honored by its issuing institution. additionally, from time to time, we review and revise our risk management methodology and inputs as necessary. see note 11 settlement guarantee management to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. some of our clients are considered group members under visa's operating regulations. as a result, some of these group members have elected to limit their responsibility for settlement losses arising from the failure of their constituent financial institutions in exchange for managing their constituent financial institutions in accordance with our credit risk policy. to the extent that any settlement failure resulting from a constituent financial institution exceeds the limits established by our credit risk policy, we would have to absorb the cost of such settlement failure, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flow. if we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative payment programs and services or comply with new laws and regulations, the use of our products, our revenues and net income could decline . rapid, significant technological changes continue to confront the payments industry. these include developments in smart cards, ecommerce, mobile, and radio frequency and proximity payment devices, such as contactless cards. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. in addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we work closely with third parties, including some potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge. these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, new laws and regulations, resistance to change from clients or merchants or third parties' intellectual property rights. if we are unable to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards, it could materially and adversely affect the use of our products, our revenues and net income . if our transaction processing systems are disrupted or compromised, the perception of our brands, and our revenues or operating results could be materially and adversely affected . our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions or degradation because of processing or other technology malfunctions, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in long-distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, effects of climate change or other catastrophic events. in addition, our visibility in the global payments industry may attract terrorists and hackers to conduct physical or computer-based attacks. the latter could include computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial-of-service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing. any of these incidents could result in a degradation or disruption of our services or damage to our properties, equipment and data. they could also compromise data security. see account data breaches involving card or other data processed, stored or transmitted by third parties or by us could adversely affect our reputation and revenues . if such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. finally, potential and actual attacks could also result in increased costs, both for recovery and for prevention against future attacks. additionally, we rely on service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. if a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require because of a natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. because of the centrality of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of our brands' reliability and materially reduce our revenues or operating results. 23 table of contents account data breaches involving card or other data processed, stored or transmitted by third parties or by us could adversely affect our reputation and revenues . our clients, merchants, other service providers and we process, store or transmit account holder information in connection with visa-branded cards and payment products. in addition, our clients may use third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. breach of the systems processing, storing or transmission of sensitive account holder data and other information could lead to fraudulent activity involving visa-branded cards, reputational damage and claims against us. a breach may subject visa to governmental or regulatory investigations, which could result in fines or enforcement actions against the company. if we are sued in any lawsuit in connection with any material data security breach, we could be involved in protracted litigation. if unsuccessful in defending such lawsuits, we may have to pay damages or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. in addition, any reputational damage resulting from an account data breach at one or more of our clients, merchants or other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of visa-branded cards, which could have a material adverse impact on our payments volume, revenues and future growth prospects. finally, any data security breach could result in additional regulation, which could materially increase our compliance costs. an increase in fraudulent or other illegal activity involving visa-branded cards or payment products could lead to reputational damage to our brands and reduce the use and acceptance of visa-branded cards or payment products . criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture account holder information. they use this information to conduct fraudulent transactions and to engage in other forms of illegal activities involving our payment products. outsourcing and specialization of functions within the payments system are increasing. as a result, more third parties are involved in processing transactions using visa-branded cards or payment products. a rise in fraud levels and other illegal activities involving visa-branded cards or payment products could lead to reputational damage to our brands. this could reduce the use and acceptance of visa-branded cards and payment products, or lead to greater regulation, which could increase our compliance costs and materially and adversely affect our payments volume and revenues. failure to maintain interoperability with visa europe's systems could damage the business and global perception of the visa brands . visa and visa europe maintain mostly separate authorization, clearing and settlement systems. as a result, we have to ensure that the two systems can process every transaction involving both of our territories, regardless of where it originates. visa europe's independent system operations could present challenges to our business due to increasing costs and difficulty in maintaining the interoperability of our respective systems. any inconsistency in the payment processing services and products between visa europe and us could negatively affect account holders from visa europe using payment products in the countries we serve or our account holders using payment products in visa europe's region. failure to authorize, clear and settle inter-territory transactions quickly and accurately could harm our business and impair the global perception of our brands. structural and organizational risks due to the nature of our relationship and the terms we have agreed to with visa europe, we have little ability to control its operations in its region, and as a result, we may experience added costs and challenges in operating our business . visa europe's exclusive license of our trademarks and technologies under the framework agreement gives us little ability to control and oversee visa europe's operations in its region. if we want to change a global rule or to implement certain changes that may be viewed as unfavorable to visa europe and its members, visa europe is not required to implement the changes unless we agree to pay for the associated implementation costs. this may result in added costs and expenses to our business. furthermore, the licenses granted under the framework agreement may raise licensing, payment and associated tax treatment concerns. visa europe may hinder our ability to acquire new businesses or to operate them effectively in its region. if the acquired business has operations in visa europe's region, visa europe may play a significant part in influencing our ongoing operational decisions and costs there. finally, visa europe may undertake operational and litigation strategies, including, but not limited to, our ongoing litigation in the u.k. and our ongoing case with the european commission, that may adversely impact our business and reputation globally. 24 table of contents if visa europe makes us acquire all of its outstanding stock under its put option, we are likely to incur substantial costs and may suffer a material and adverse effect on our operations and net income . we have granted visa europe a put option, which visa europe can exercise at any time and which would require us to purchase all outstanding capital stock from visa europe's members within 285 days. given current economic conditions, the purchase price under the terms of the put option could likely be in excess of $10 billion dollars and we may need to obtain third-party financing in order to meet our obligation through the issuance of either debt or equity. an equity offering, or the payment of part of the exercise price with our stock, would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. see future sales of our class a common stock, or the end of transfer restrictions on our class b common stock, could result in dilution to holders of our existing class a common stock, which could adversely affect their rights and depress the market price of our class a common stock . sufficient financing might not be available to us within that time on reasonable terms. see note 2 visa europe to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. in addition, we are required to assess any change in the fair value of the put option on a quarterly basis and record adjustments as necessary on our consolidated statements of operations. consequently, the adjustments affect our reported net income and earnings per share. these quarterly adjustments and their resulting impact on our reported statements of operations could be significant. the existence of these changes in the fair value of the put option could adversely affect our ability to raise capital and increase any associated costs. if we acquire visa europe, we may also encounter difficulties in integrating visa europe's business and systems into our existing operations. if we cannot do so quickly and cost-effectively, the integration could divert the time and resources of senior management and other key resources, disrupt our current operations and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, we would become subject to any ongoing or future regulatory disputes as a result of eu regulations that govern the operations of visa europe. we may also be required to assume any ongoing or future litigation involving visa europe. if we cannot remain organizationally effective, we will be unable to address the opportunities and challenges presented by our strategy and the increasingly dynamic, competitive, economic and regulatory environment . for us to remain organizationally effective, we must effectively empower and deploy our management and operational resources, and incorporate both global and local perspectives into our decisions and processes. if we fail to do so, we may be unable to expand quickly, and the results of our expansion may be unsatisfactory. in addition, if we are unable to make decisions quickly, assess our opportunities and risks, execute our strategy, and implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes, as needed, we may not be successful in this increasingly dynamic, competitive, economic and regulatory environment. we may be unable to attract and retain key management and other key employees . our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success. our senior management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. we may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms that are competitive with the rest of the market. failure to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees, or failure to develop and implement a viable succession plan, could adversely affect our business and our future success. acquisitions, strategic investments and entries into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations . although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to successfully finance, partner with or integrate them. we are also subject to the terms of the exclusive license granted to visa europe in most acquisitions and major investments that involve countries in visa europe's territory, which will impact our ability to expand or conduct business in those regions. regulatory constraints, particularly competition regulations, may also affect the extent to which we can maximize the value of our acquisitions or investments. furthermore, the integration of any acquisition or investment will take time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. we may spend time and money on acquisitions or investments that do not increase our revenues. although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of and investments in businesses, products and technologies and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that they will be successful. 25 table of contents with the evolution of technology and the opening of new market segments, we may choose to participate in areas in which we have not engaged in the past, either through acquisitions or through organic development. these include digital, ecommerce and mobile payments. our recent entry into these businesses requires additional resources and presents an additional degree of risk, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. future sales of our class a common stock, or the end of transfer restrictions on our class b common stock, could result in dilution to holders of our existing class a common stock, which could adversely affect their rights and depress the market price of our class a common stock . the market price of our class a common stock could fall as a result of many factors. under our retrospective responsibility plan, upon final resolution of our covered litigation, all class b common stock will become convertible into class a common stock. future offerings of our class a common stock or the end of the transfer restrictions on our class b common stock would increase the number of class a common stock outstanding, which could adversely affect the market price and dilute the voting power of our existing class a common stock. the market price of our class a common stock may also suffer from the perception that such an increase in the number of class a common stock outstanding could occur in the future. if funds are released from escrow after the resolution of the litigation covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, the value of our class a common stock will be diluted . under our retrospective responsibility plan, funds still in the escrow account after the resolution of all covered litigation will be released back to us. at that time, each share of class b common stock will become convertible into shares of class a common stock, benefiting the holders of class b common stock. this in turn will result in dilution of the interest of holders of class a common stock. the amount of funds released and the market price of our class a common stock will determine the extent of the dilution. holders of our class b and c common stock have voting rights concerning certain significant corporate transactions, and their interests in our business may be different from those of holders of our class a common stock . although their voting rights are limited, holders of our class b and c common stock can vote on certain significant transactions. these include a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business and any other vote required under delaware law. the holders of these shares may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class a common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with holders of class a common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and under delaware law could delay or prevent a takeover attempt or a change in control . provisions contained in our current certificate of incorporation, in our current bylaws and under delaware law could delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable. for instance, except for limited exceptions, no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class a common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance. in addition, except for common stock previously issued in connection with our reorganization to visa members, as defined in our current certificate of incorporation, no competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may hold more than 5% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis. our ability to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock in the future is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows . since august 2008, we have paid cash dividends quarterly on our class a, b and c common stock. the payment of dividends, if any, is subject to the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including, but not limited to, our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, covenants in our debt instruments and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. if, as a result of these factors, we cannot generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to pay dividends to all of our stockholders. specifically, if a dividend is declared or paid, an equivalent amount must be paid on each class or series of our common stock. 26 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss arising from adverse changes in market factors. our exposure to financial market risks results primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. aggregate risk exposures are monitored on an ongoing basis. foreign currency exchange rate risk although most of our activities are transacted in u.s. dollars, we are exposed to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations are primarily related to adverse changes in the u.s. dollar value of revenues generated from foreign currency-denominated transactions and adverse changes in the u.s. dollar value of payments in foreign currencies, primarily for expenses at our non-u.s. locations. we manage these risks by entering into foreign currency forward contracts that hedge exposures of the variability in the u.s. dollar equivalent of anticipated non-u.s. dollar denominated cash flows. our foreign currency exchange rate risk management program reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. the aggregate notional amounts of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding in our exchange rate risk management program, including contracts not designated for cash flow hedge accounting, were $1.3 billion at september 30, 2014 and 2013 . the aggregate notional amount outstanding at september 30, 2014 is fully consistent with our strategy and treasury policy aimed at reducing foreign exchange risk below a predetermined and approved threshold. however, actual results could materially differ from our forecast. the effect of a hypothetical 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar is estimated to create an additional fair value gain or loss of approximately $90 million on our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at september 30, 2014 . see note 1 summary of significant accounting policies and note 12 derivative financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements. we are also subject to foreign currency exchange risk in daily settlement activities. this risk arises from the timing of rate setting for settlement with clients relative to the timing of market trades for balancing currency positions. risk in settlement activities is limited through daily operating procedures, including the utilization of visa settlement systems and our interaction with foreign exchange trading counterparties. interest rate risk our investment portfolio assets are held in both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate securities. these assets are included in cash equivalents and short-term or long-term available-for-sale investments. investments in fixed-rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. the fair value of fixed-rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. additionally, a falling-rate environment creates reinvestment risk because as securities mature, the proceeds are reinvested at a lower rate, generating less interest income. historically, we have been able to hold investments until maturity. neither our operating results or cash flows have been, nor are expected to be, materially impacted by a sudden change in market interest rates. the fair value balances of our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2014 and 2013 were $3.0 billion and $3.5 billion , respectively. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would create an estimated change in fair value of approximately $32 million on our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2014 . the fair value balances of our adjustable-rate debt securities were $1.9 billion and $1.1 billion at september 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. visa europe put option we have a liability related to the put option with visa europe, which is recorded at fair value at september 30, 2014 . we are required to assess the fair value of the put option on a quarterly basis, and record adjustments as necessary. in the determination of the fair value of the put option at september 30, 2014 , we have assumed a 40% probability of exercise by visa europe at some point in the future and a p/e differential, at the time of exercise, of approximately 1.9 x. the use of a probability of exercise 5% higher than our estimate would have resulted in an 49 table of contents increase of approximately $18 million in the value of the put option. an increase of 1.0x in the assumed p/e differential would have resulted in an increase of approximately $84 million in the value of the put option. see liquidity and capital resources and critical accounting estimates above. pension plan risk at september 30, 2014 and 2013 , our u.s. defined benefit pension plan assets were $1.1 billion , and projected benefit obligations were $983 million and $897 million , respectively. a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. we will continue to monitor the performance of pension plan assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of our contribution to the pension plan for fiscal 2015 , if any, which would be made in september 2015. 50 table of contentsrisk factors regulatory risks additional regulation of interchange reimbursement rates may reduce our transaction volumes and harm our overall business . we generally do not receive any revenue related to interchange reimbursement fees in a purchase transaction as those fees are paid by the acquirers to the issuers. they are, however, a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. consequently, changes to these fees can substantially affect our revenues and overall payments volume. we have historically set default interchange reimbursement rates in the u.s. and many other geographies. interchange reimbursement rates, our operating rules and related practices have become subject to continued or increased government regulation globally, and regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions have reviewed or are reviewing these rates and practices. when we cannot set default interchange reimbursement rates at optimal levels, issuers and acquirers may find our payments system less attractive. it may increase the attractiveness of other payments systems like competitors' closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. in addition, as a result of such regulations, we believe some issuers are charging new or higher fees to consumers. in certain instances, some acquirers elect to charge higher discount rates to merchants, regardless of the visa interchange reimbursement rate, causing merchants not to accept visa-branded cards or payment products or to steer account holders to alternate payment systems or forms of payment. in addition, some issuers and acquirers have obtained, and may continue to obtain, incentives from us and reductions in the fees that we charge in an effort to reduce the expense of their card programs. for these reasons, additional regulation of interchange reimbursement rates may make visa-branded cards and payment products less desirable, reduce our overall transaction volumes, and harm our overall business. we are subject to regulations that prohibit us from contracting with clients or requiring them to use only our network, or that deny them the option of selecting only our network . in order to provide account holders a consistent experience and transparency into visanet, we promote certain practices to ensure that visa-branded cards are processed over our network. we have historically had agreements with some issuers under which they agree to issue certain payment cards that use only the visa network or receive incentives if they do so. in addition, certain issuers of some products have historically chosen to include only our network. we refer to these various practices as network exclusivity. in addition, certain network or issuer rules or practices may be viewed as limiting the routing options of merchants when multiple debit networks co-reside on visa debit cards. for example, the visa rules require that all authorization, clearance and settlement of international transactions must be done through visanet. these are commonly referred to as routing rules. the dodd-frank act already limits our and issuers' ability to adopt network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit area. additional legislation or regulations like the dodd-frank act in the u.s. and elsewhere could materially decrease the number of transactions we process. in order to retain transaction volume, we may reduce the fees we charge to issuers or acquirers or increase the payments and other incentives we provide to issuers, acquirers or merchants. any of these outcomes could harm our overall business. the dodd-frank act and other regulations and developments arising from the dodd-frank act may continue to harm our overall business . as of october 1, 2011, in accordance with the dodd-frank act, the federal reserve capped the maximum u.s. debit interchange reimbursement rate charged by large financial institutions at twenty-one cents plus five basis points, with a possible fraud adjustment up to an additional one cent. this amounted to a significant reduction in the average system-wide fees previously charged. the federal reserve also issued regulations requiring issuers to make at least two unaffiliated networks available for processing debit transactions on each debit card. the rules 12 table of contents also prohibit us and issuers from restricting a merchant's ability to direct the routing of electronic debit transactions over any of the networks that an issuer has enabled to process those transactions. these regulations have adversely affected our u.s. debit business and associated revenues by creating negative pressure on our pricing, reduced the volume and number of u.s. debit payments we process, and diminished associated revenues. although we believe we have absorbed the principal impact of the october 2011 regulations, our business could continue to be affected, including if the federal reserve issues new or revised regulations. negative pressures have arisen through various channels. other debit networks may become more aggressive in offering merchant cost reductions to win routing preference, which in turn puts more pressure on the business terms offered by visa. a number of our clients obtained fee reductions or increased incentives from us to offset their own lost revenue. some clients elected to issue fewer cards enabled with visa-affiliated networks or reduced the number of debit cards they issued and investments they made in marketing and rewards programs, while others imposed new or higher fees on debit cards or demand deposit account relationships. many merchants have used the routing regulations to redirect transactions or steer account holders to other debit networks based on lower cost or other factors. other clients and merchants are likely to take similar actions in the future. some elements of the dodd-frank act lack definition and create the potential for networks to pursue different strategies subject to their interpretation of the rules. our interpretation may result in a pursuit of strategies that may be less effective than those of our competitors. overall, the regulations and developments arising from the dodd-frank act could harm our overall business. new laws or regulations in one jurisdiction or of one product offering may lead to new laws or regulations in other jurisdictions or of other product offerings . regulators around the world increasingly note each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments industry. consequently, a development in one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in another. the dodd-frank act and the european union interchange regulation are developments with such potential. see note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report . similarly, new laws and regulations involving one product offering may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to other product offerings. for example, regulations affecting debit payments could eventually spread to credit payments. the risks created by a new law or regulation have the potential to be replicated and to negatively affect our business in another region or in other product offerings. we may face differing rules and regulations in matters like interchange reimbursement rates, preferred routing, domestic processing requirements, currency conversion, point of sale transaction rules and practices, privacy, and data use or protection. as a result, the visa rules may differ from country to country or by product offering. if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty rapidly adjusting our product offerings, services and fees, and other important aspects of our business in the various regions. in addition, adverse developments, regulations and litigation with respect to our industry or another industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation and result in greater regulatory and legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. any of these factors could harm our overall business. government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries . governments in some countries provide resources to or protection for their domestic payment card networks, brands and processors. these governments may impose regulatory requirements that favor domestic providers or that mandate domestic payments processing be done entirely in that country. in china, for example, unionpay continues to enjoy advantages over international networks, remains the sole processor of domestic transactions and operates the sole domestic acceptance mark. though the chinese state council has announced that international schemes, such as visa, would be able to participate in the domestic market and be eligible to apply for a license to operate a bank card clearing institution (bcci) in china, legislation and implementation guidelines for bcci's have yet to be published and finalized. meanwhile in russia, national payment legislation has effectively prevented visa from processing in the domestic market and has mandated that visa migrate its domestic processing business to the state owned nspk, which is the only entity allowed to process domestically. national laws that mandate domestic processing may increase our costs and decrease the number of visa-branded cards issued or processed in those regions. these actions could impede us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for our financial institution clients in those countries and substantially restrict our activities there and in 13 table of contents other countries that may adopt similar practices. these actions could also force us to leave countries where we presently have activity and keep us from entering new markets. although we are trying to effect change in these countries, we may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, maintain or increase our revenues globally and extend our global brands. we are subject to regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security . privacy, data use and security continue to receive heightened legislative and regulatory focus in the u.s. and elsewhere. for example, in many jurisdictions consumers must be notified in the event of a data breach and those jurisdictions that have these laws are continuing to increase the circumstances and the breadth of these notices. these laws and regulations can impact the way we use and handle data, operate our products and services, and even impact our ability to offer a product or service. our failure or the failure of our clients to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, litigation and damage to our global reputation and our brands. these laws and regulations may increase visa ' and our clients' costs, decrease the number of visa-branded cards our clients issue and decrease our payments volume and revenue. evolving and increased global regulatory focus on the payments industry may result in costly new compliance burdens on our clients and on us . regulation of the payments industry has evolved and increased significantly. examples include: data protection and information security . aspects of our operations and business are subject to privacy and data protection regulation in the u.s. and elsewhere. our financial institution clients around the globe are subject to similar requirements under privacy laws and bank regulatory regimes. for example, as of september 1, 2015, russia amended its personal data law to require personal data operators to store personal information of russian citizens in databases located in russia. in addition, many u.s. states have enacted legislation requiring consumer notification in the event of a security breach. regulatory and sanctions compliance . we are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the u.s. bank secrecy act and the patriot act. in addition, we are subject to economic and trade sanctions programs administered by ofac. an increase in the number of ofac sanctions may affect the issuance, acceptance, reputation, and revenues associated with visa-branded cards. some of our clients located outside of the u.s. may not be subject to these same laws, regulations and sanctions, and, as a result, may initiate transactions that are permissible in their countries but that may not be permissible were the transaction to take place in the u.s. regulation of the price of credit . many jurisdictions in which visa-branded cards are used have regulations that could increase the costs of card issuance or decrease the flexibility of issuers to charge market-based interest rates and fees on credit card accounts. in the u.s., these include regulations issued under the truth in lending act of 1968, as amended by the credit card act of 2009. increased u.s. consumer financial protection bureau scrutiny. regulatory changes by the cfpb that impose new requirements on or restrict the terms under which financial products can be offered could increase our clients ' costs and decrease the number of visa-branded payment cards our clients issue. the cfpb also has supervisory and independent examination authority as well as enforcement authority over certain financial institutions , their service providers and other entities , which could include us due to our processing of credit, debit and prepaid transactions. increased central bank oversight. several central banks and similar regulatory bodies around the world have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the electronic payments industry, and in some cases have already designated certain payment systems as "systemically important payment systems" or "critical infrastructure." for example, visa europe was recently designated as systematically important by the bank of england. any such oversight may lead to additional regulations by central banks and other government regulators. these could include new settlement procedures, cyber security requirements or other policies or operational rules to address settlement and operational risks. increased central bank oversight could also include new criteria for financial institution client participation and merchant or other non-bank access to our payments system. for example, in china, draft cyber security legislation may prevent companies like visa from bringing international best practice standards for fraud and risk management when the market is open. 14 table of contents safety and soundness regulation . banking regulations enacted in the u.s. and elsewhere may make some financial institutions less likely to become an issuer of visa-branded cards because they may be subject to increased risk management or higher capital requirements. regulation of internet and mobile transactions . legislation in various jurisdictions may make it less desirable or more costly to complete internet transactions using visa-branded cards by affecting the legality of those transactions, the laws that govern the transactions, their taxation or the allocation of various intellectual property rights. in addition, new mobile regulatory requirements could impact our business practices, for instance in china where new regulation may prevent companies like visa from introducing new technologies when the market opens to them. money transfer regulations. as we expand our product offerings, we may become subject to u.s. federal and state money transfer regulations, international payments laws and other existing, new or evolving regulations which could increase our regulatory oversight and compliance costs. complying with these and other regulations increases our costs and can reduce our revenue opportunities. our programs and policies are designed to comply with anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism, anti-corruption and sanctions regulations and other laws, and we continue to enhance them. but, as regulations continue to evolve and regulatory oversight continues to increase, we cannot guarantee that our programs and policies will be deemed compliant by all applicable regulatory authorities. in the event our controls should fail or we are found to be out of compliance for other reasons, we could be subject to monetary damages, civil and criminal money penalties, litigation and damage to our global brand reputation. the impact of such regulations on our clients and on us may increase compliance costs and reduce the volume of payments we process. moreover, such regulations can limit the types of products and services that we offer, the countries in which visa-branded cards are used and the types of account holders and merchants who can obtain or accept visa-branded cards, thereby harming our overall business. litigation risks our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements or final judgments . our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan addresses monetary liabilities from settlements of, or final judgments in, the u.s. covered litigation, which is described in note 3 u.s. retrospective responsibility plan and potential visa europe liabilities to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. the u.s. retrospective responsibility plan consists of several related mechanisms to fund settlements or judgments in the u.s. covered litigation. these include an escrow account funded with a portion of the net proceeds of our ipo and any subsequent offerings of our shares of class a common stock (or deposits of cash into the escrow account in lieu of such offerings). they also include a loss sharing agreement, a judgment sharing agreement and an omnibus agreement, as amended. in addition, our u.s. financial institution clients are obligated to indemnify us pursuant to visa u.s.a. inc.'s certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in accordance with their membership agreements. these mechanisms are unique, complicated and tiered, and if we cannot use one or more of them, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows, or even cause us to become insolvent. the principal remaining u.s. covered litigation involves interchange reimbursement rates. see note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report . beginning in 2005, a series of complaints (the majority of which were styled as class actions) were filed on behalf of merchants against us, mastercard and/or other defendants, including certain visa member financial institutions. we refer to this as the interchange multidistrict litigation or mdl 1720. among other allegations, the plaintiffs alleged that visa's setting of default interchange reimbursement rates violated federal antitrust laws and, in some cases, certain state unfair competition laws. the lawsuits were transferred to a multidistrict litigation in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of new york. the plaintiffs in mdl 1720 seek damages for alleged overcharges in merchant discount rates as well as injunctive and other relief. the consolidated class action complaint alleges that estimated damages will range in the tens of billions of dollars. because these lawsuits were brought under the u.s. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages would be trebled. the allocation of any monetary judgment or certain settlements among the defendants is governed by an omnibus agreement dated february 7, 2011, and amended august 26, 2014 and october 22, 2015. see note 3 u.s. retrospective responsibility plan and potential visa europe liabilities to our consolidated financial statements 15 table of contents included in item 8 of this report. visa's portion of a settlement or judgment covered by the omnibus agreement, as amended, would be allocated in accordance with specified provisions of our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan. we signed settlement agreements in connection with mdl 1720, which included an agreement to pay approximately $4.0 billion to the class plaintiffs. on january 14, 2014, the court entered a final judgment order approving the settlement, from which a number of objectors have appealed. until the appeals are finally adjudicated, no assurance can be provided that we will be able to resolve the class plaintiffs' claims as contemplated by the settlement agreement. a number of merchants have filed opt-out cases in various federal district courts. all of the cases filed in federal court have been either assigned to the judge presiding over mdl 1720, or have been transferred by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation for inclusion in mdl 1720. the court has entered an order confirming that mdl 1720 includes: (i) all current and future actions transferred to mdl 1720 by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation or other order of any court for inclusion in coordinated or pretrial proceedings; and (ii) all actions filed in the eastern district of new york that arise out of operative facts as alleged in the cases subject to the transfer orders of the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation. cases that are transferred to or otherwise included in mdl 1720 or that are brought after october 22, 2015, by an opt out of the rule 23(b)(3) settlement class in mdl 1720 and arise out of facts or circumstances substantially similar to those alleged in mdl 1720 are u.s. covered litigation for purposes of the u.s. retrospective responsibility plan. see note 3 u.s. retrospective responsibility plan and potential visa europe liabilities . failure of our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan to insulate us adequately from the impact of such settlements or judgments could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. such a failure could even cause us to become insolvent. the u.s. retrospective responsibility plan addresses only the u.s. covered litigation. the plan generally does not cover other pending litigation or any litigation that we may face in the future, except for cases that include claims for damages relating to the period prior to our ipo that are transferred to or otherwise included in the interchange multidistrict litigation or that are brought by a rule 23(b)(3) opt out and arise out of facts or circumstances substantially similar to those alleged in mdl 1720. in addition, non-monetary settlement terms and judgments in the u.s. covered litigation may require us to modify the way we do business. therefore, even if our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan provides us with adequate funding to satisfy our obligations with respect to monetary liabilities from settlements of, and judgments in, the u.s. covered litigation, it will not insulate us from the monetary impact of pending or future litigation. as described in note 2 visa europe and note 3 u.s. retrospective responsibility plan and potential visa europe liabilities to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report, on november 2, 2015, the company and visa europe entered into a transaction agreement pursuant to which the company agreed to acquire visa europe. the closing is subject to various conditions including regulatory approvals and is expected to occur in the fiscal third quarter of 2016. visa inc., visa europe or their affiliates are, or may become, a party to certain existing and potential litigation relating to the setting of multilateral interchange fee rates in the visa europe territory. as part of the acquisition terms, the company has obtained certain protection in respect of losses resulting from such existing and potential litigation through the preferred stock and the u.k. loss sharing agreement. if claims are not covered by these transactional protections, visa europe may have recourse under its membership documents against members under the terms of the existing indemnity arrangements (other than in respect of certain claims relating to u.k. domestic multilateral interchange fees). however, similar to the u.s. retrospective responsibility plan, failure of these protections to insulate us adequately from the impact of settlements or judgments in the existing and potential litigation against visa inc., visa europe or their affiliates could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. if we are found liable in other pending or future lawsuits, we may have to pay substantial damages . like many other large companies, we are a defendant in a number of civil actions and investigations alleging violations of competition or antitrust law, consumer protection law or intellectual property law, among others. examples of such claims are described more fully in note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. some lawsuits involve complex claims that are subject to substantial uncertainties and unspecified damages; therefore, we cannot ascertain the probability of loss or estimate our liability. accordingly, we have not established allowances for such legal proceedings. particularly in cases involving merchants and consumers, private plaintiffs often seek class action certification in cases against us due to the size and scope of our business. if we are unsuccessful in our defense against a large class action lawsuit, such as the u.s. or canadian merchant class action lawsuits, monetary damages could be 16 table of contents significant, which could harm our financial condition. see note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. there may be limitations on our business or changes to our business practices resulting from our litigation . certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation. we may also have to change our business practices in response to pending or future litigation. for example, under the settlement agreement in the interchange multidistrict litigation, we have agreed, among other things, to permit merchants to add surcharges to credit transactions in certain circumstances. see item 8 financial statements and supplementary data note 20 legal matters included elsewhere in this report. additional surcharges to credit transactions could adversely impact consumers' usage of visa-branded payment products. settlements of, or judgments in pending and future litigation could force us to limit the rates we set, revise our rules about rates charged to consumers who use visa-branded payment products or make other modifications that could harm our overall business. we may be subject to tax examinations or disputes, or changes in the tax laws . we exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may decrease their accuracy. we are currently under examination by, or in disputes with, the u.s. internal revenue service and other tax authorities, and we may be subject to additional examinations or disputes in the future. relevant tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. failure to sustain our position in these matters could result in a material, adverse effect on our cash flow and financial position. in addition, changes in existing laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental u.s. and international tax reform, may also increase our effective tax rate. a substantial increase in our tax payments could have a material, adverse effect on our financial results. see also note 19 income taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. we have limited rights to enforce our framework agreement with visa europe, which could expose us to significant liabilities . while we have entered into an agreement to acquire visa europe, until the transaction closes or if it fails to close, our relationship is governed by the framework agreement. in the event visa europe fails to meet its obligations under the framework agreement, our remedies are limited. we are unable to terminate the framework agreement even upon visa europe's material, uncured breach. see note 2 visa europe to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. under the framework agreement, we may be required to indemnify visa europe for losses resulting from all claims outside its region arising from our or their actions relating to the payments business. this obligation applies even if neither we nor any of our related parties or agents engaged in the actions gives rise to such claims. the indemnity obligation could expose us to significant liabilities for activities over which we have little or no control. our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan would not cover these liabilities. in our view, pursuant to the framework agreement, visa europe is obligated to indemnify visa inc. and visa international service association ("visa international") in connection with the european competition proceedings (i.e., the pending european commission investigation and the filed or unfiled claims in the u.k. merchant litigation), including payment of any fines or damages that may be imposed. however, visa europe has informed us of its view that it is not obligated to indemnify visa inc. or visa international for these claims. if visa europe continues in its refusal to indemnify us and we cannot enforce the indemnity, we could be exposed to significant liabilities which would not be covered under our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan. see note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. business risks we face intense pressures on client pricing . pressure on client pricing poses challenges for our business. in order to stay competitive, we offer incentives to our clients to increase payments volume, enter new market segments and expand their visa-branded card base. these include up-front cash payments, fee discounts, credits, performance-based incentives, marketing and other support payments. we have continued to increase the use of incentives such as up-front cash payments and fee discounts in many countries, including the u.s. in addition, we offer incentives to certain merchants or acquirers to 17 table of contents win routing preference in situations where our products co-reside with other networks and merchants have a choice of network routing options. the economic pressures on our clients arising from the dodd-frank act have also increased our use of incentives. as a result, the provision of certain products and services may be less profitable or become unprofitable, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profits. if we continue to increase incentives to our clients, we will need to find ways to offset the financial impact by increasing payments volume, increasing the amount of fee-based services we provide or both. we may not succeed in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. in addition, we benefit from long-term contracts with certain clients, including those that are large contributors to our revenue. continued pressure on our fees could prevent us from maintaining such agreements in the future on the same or favorable terms. we may also have to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships or comply with regulations. while we may implement cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those surrounding client incentives, we may not be successful in our efforts or they may not offset the decreases in our revenues. we face intense competition in our industry . the global payments industry is intensely competitive and, as a result, our payment programs compete against all forms of payment. these include cash, checks, electronic, ecommerce, virtual currencies and mobile payments, as well as traditional general purpose card networks. in addition, our open-loop payments network competes against other alternate payment systems such as closed-loop payment systems. traditional or nontraditional competitors may put us at a competitive disadvantage by leveraging services or products in areas in which we do not directly compete to win business in areas where we do compete. our clients can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. the dodd-frank act increased this competitive pressure. the risk to maintaining or securing our clients' long-term commitments to our products increased with the dodd-frank act's restrictions on network exclusivity in the debit sector. we do not have exclusivity with our largest clients such as jpmorgan chase and bank of america. in certain circumstances, our clients may terminate these relationships on relatively short notice without significant early termination fees. because a significant portion of our operating revenues is concentrated among our largest clients, the loss of business from any of these clients could have an adverse effect on the company. see note 13 enterprise-wide disclosures and concentration of business to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. additionally, some of our competitors may develop substantially better technology or have greater financial resources. they may offer a wider range of programs, products and services than we do, including more innovative ones. they may use advertising and marketing strategies that are more effective than ours, achieving broader brand recognition and merchant acceptance. they may also develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements. certain of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures or participate selectively in different market segments. they may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to new regulatory, technological and other developments. in many cases, these competitors have the support of government mandates that prohibit, limit or otherwise hinder our ability to compete for or otherwise secure transactions within those countries and regions. we expect there to be changes in the competitive landscape in the future. for example: competitors, clients and others may develop products that compete with, impair or replace the value-added services we provide to support our transaction processing; parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position in the payments value chain; we may be asked to develop or customize certain aspects of our payment services for use by our customers, processors or other third parties; participants in the payments industry may merge, form joint ventures or enter into other business combinations that strengthen their existing business propositions or create new, competing payment services; 18 table of contents competition may increase from alternate types of payment services, such as mobile payment services, ecommerce payment services and services that permit direct debit of consumer checking accounts or ach payments; new players and intermediaries in the payments value chain may redirect transactions or steer account holders away from our network; or new services and technologies that we develop may be impacted by industry-wide solutions and standards set by organizations such as the international organization for standardization, american national standards institute, as well as emvco, related to emv-chip payment technology, cloud-based payments, tokenization or other technologies. our failure to compete effectively in light of any such developments could harm our business and prospects for future growth. disintermediation from the payments value chain could harm our business . our position in the payments value chain is key to our business. some of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks, virtual currencies and certain alternate payments systems, operate closed-loop payments systems, with direct connections to both merchants and consumers without any intermediaries. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from this business model. regulatory actions or initiatives such as the dodd-frank act or the federal reserve's faster payments efforts may provide them with increased opportunity to do so. in addition, although other competitors are pursuing similar lines of business or adopting similar commercial models, they have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as operators of multi-party payments systems such as ours. we also run the risk of disintermediation due to factors such as emerging technologies including mobile payments, and by virtue of increasing bilateral agreements between entities that prefer not to use our payments network for processing payments. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly with issuers and acquirers. additional consolidation in the financial services industry could impact our revenues and harm our overall business . additional consolidation in the financial services industry or the acquisition of one or more of our largest clients by an institution with a strong relationship with one of our competitors may reduce the overall number of our clients. this could result in the acquired financial institution's visa business shifting to a competitor, resulting in a substantial loss of business to us. our existing clients may seek to obtain more favorable pricing agreements. we may also be adversely affected by price compression should one of our clients absorb another financial institution and qualify for higher volume-based discounts on the combined volumes of the merged businesses. pressure on the fees we charge our clients caused by such consolidation could impact our revenues and harm our overall business. merchants' continued focus on the costs associated with payment card acceptance exposes us to additional risks . we rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our clients to maintain and expand the acceptance of visa-branded payment cards. consolidation in the retail industry is producing a group of larger merchants that is having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry. some merchants have sought to reduce their costs associated with payment card acceptance by lobbying for new legislation and regulatory enforcement and by filing lawsuits. if they continue, we may face increased compliance and litigation expenses. additionally, some merchants have pushed for changes to the visa rules which govern visa acceptance at the point of sale, including the ability to accept only certain types of visa-branded cards (e.g., credit or debit) and impose account holder surcharges. if successful, where applicable, these efforts could adversely impact consumers' usage of visa-branded payment products. we also face competitive pressures on pricing. we and our clients negotiate pricing discounts and other incentive arrangements with certain large merchants to increase acceptance and usage of visa-branded payment cards. if merchants continue to consolidate, we and our clients may have to increase the incentives provided to certain large merchants. some merchants also continue to invest in their own payment solutions, using both 19 table of contents traditional and new technology platforms. examples include closed-loop payment systems that are specific to a single merchant or multi-merchant solutions like the merchant customer exchange, which is designed for a mobile platform utilizing alternative payment systems and has many merchant participants. such programs may offer unique or specialized benefits to consumers, including discounts or customized offers. if merchants are able to drive broad consumer adoption and usage, it could harm our business. we may not be able to grow or maintain our business due to certain financial institutions or merchants' exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors . certain financial institutions or merchants have longstanding exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue or accept payment cards. these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to conduct material amounts of business with them. in addition, these financial institutions or merchants may be more successful and may grow more quickly than our existing clients or merchants, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and prevent us from growing our business. our success depends on our relationships with our financial institution clients, acquirers, merchants, account holders and other third parties . we depend and will continue to depend significantly on relationships with our financial institution clients and on their relationships with account holders and merchants to support and to compete effectively for our programs and services. we do not issue cards, extend credit to account holders or determine the interest rates or other fees charged to account holders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these competitive card features for their customers. account holders, however, may associate these features with our brands and if they are dissatisfied, our business may be harmed. as a result of the dodd-frank act's network exclusivity regulations, we have engaged and will continue to engage in significantly more discussions with merchants, acquirers and processors to provide incentives to promote routing preference and acceptance growth. we already engage in many co-branding efforts, in which we contract with merchants, who directly receive incentives from us. as these and other relationships become more prevalent and take on a greater importance to our business, our success will increasingly depend on our ability to sustain and grow these relationships. outside the u.s., some governments only permit local providers to complete domestic processing, which prohibits us from overseeing the end-to-end processing of the transactions. therefore, we depend on our close working relationships with our clients or other third party processors in these regions to effectively manage the processing of transactions involving visa-branded cards. our inability to oversee the end-to-end processing for cards carrying our brands in these countries may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to ensure the quality of the services supporting our brands. in addition, we depend on third parties and our financial institution clients to provide various services associated with our payments network on our behalf, and to the extent that such third-party vendors or our financial institution clients fail to perform or deliver adequate services, our business and reputation could be impaired. negative perception of our company in the marketplace may affect our brands and reputation . our brands and reputation are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain account holders and financial institution clients to visa-branded products depends highly upon the external perceptions of our company and our industry's quality of service, use and protection of account holder data, regulatory compliance, financial condition, corporate responsibility and other factors. negative perception or publicity, particularly in light of the rapid, widespread use of social media channels, could cause damage to our brands and reputation. our business may also be affected by actions taken by our clients or other third parties, or by circumstances that are outside of our control: our clients and other third parties may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands or that are inconsistent with our own business practices. until we are able to complete the proposed acquisition of visa europe, our limited control over the quality of service and promotion of our brands in europe could affect our brands and reputation globally. while visa europe has very broad latitude to use our brands and technology within its region, visa europe is not required to spend any minimum amount of money conducting research on brand performance, promoting or maintaining the strength of our brands. 20 table of contents any negative perception of the u.s. arising from its political, economic, social or other positions could harm the perception of our company and our brands globally by associating visa with those positions. any of these factors could turn clients and consumers away from our brand and products, require us to take on additional liabilities and costs, result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny, and harm our overall business. we may continue to be affected by economic events in financial markets around the world . the current threats to global economic growth include geopolitical instability in brazil, venezuela, russia, ukraine, the middle east and other oil producing countries, which could affect oil prices, economic fragility in the eurozone and in the u.s., higher interest rates hurting the housing market, sluggish job creation, political discord, spending cuts and debt defaults. while there continues to be some improvements in advanced economies, emerging economies continue to suffer with slower growth. consumer spending continues to be impacted from consumer debt levels, elevated housing inventory, deflation, changes in savings rates, continued equity market volatility, decreased export activity, lowered government spending and additional government intervention. furthermore, continued challenges in the credit environment, bank instability, downgrades of sovereign, bank and commercial debt, political issues affecting the handling of national debt, and the uncertainty arising from new government policies could also impact our clients, merchants and account holders. the fragility of the current situation would be exacerbated if additional negative economic developments or crises were to arise around the world. these include defaults on government debt, exhaustion of national economic stimulus packages, significant increases in oil prices, tax increases, a significant decline in the commercial real estate market and policy missteps. most recently, the economic situations in various countries in europe have been particularly unstable, arising from the real prospect of debt defaults. if such defaults occur, or if the measures taken to avert such defaults create their own instability, economic turmoil is likely to result, and the impact is likely to be global and highly significant. the volatility of the current economic environment in advanced and emerging economies and the responses by financial institutions and governments may create new risks or increase the impact of existing ones. these include the following: depressed consumer and business confidence may continue to decrease account holder spending. uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our clients' businesses may reduce the accuracy of our estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets. our clients may implement cost-reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing budgets or increase requests for greater incentives or reduced fees from us. our clients may decrease spending for optional or enhanced services, which could reduce account holders' desire to use these products. our clients may increase account holder fees as a cost-recovery initiative, or as a result of regulatory action, decreasing their value proposition to consumers and reducing consumers' desire to use our products. government intervention or investments in our clients may negatively affect our business in those regions with our financial institution clients. tightening of credit availability could affect the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. the u.s. government's inability to meet its obligations or a possible further downgrade in the u.s. debt rating could adversely affect the liquidity of our investments, a substantial portion of which are in u.s. treasury and government securities. our clients may default on their settlement obligations, including for reasons unrelated to payment card activity, such as mortgage loan commitments. adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect the dollar value of our revenues and payments in foreign currencies. 21 table of contents the current economic environment could lead some clients to curtail or postpone near-term investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines, modify fees and loyalty programs, or take other actions that adversely affect the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these clients. declines in stock prices or significant instability in the securities markets worldwide could cause consumer spending to decline materially. any of these developments could harm our overall business. a decline in non-u.s. and cross-border activity and in multi-currency transactions could adversely affect our revenues and profitability . we generate a significant amount of our revenues from cross-border transactions, and our clients pay us fees in connection with them. cross-border transactions arise when the country of origin of the issuer is different from that of the merchant. some of these cross-border transaction fees vary depending on the transaction currency and whether the transaction currency is different than the account holder's billing currency as provided to visa by his or her issuer. additionally, adverse changes in exchange rates could reduce the number of cross-border transactions which may harm our revenues. in addition, visa derives revenue from foreign currency exchange activities that result when our clients settle transactions in different currencies. a reduction in multi-currency transactions may reduce the need for foreign currency exchange activities and adversely affect our revenues. limitations or changes in our ability to set foreign currency exchange rates for multi-currency transactions as a result of regulation, changes to tax policy, litigation, competitive pressures, reduced volatility in currency markets or other reasons may also adversely affect our revenues. cross-border travel may be adversely affected by global geopolitical, economic, social and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism, social or political instability, natural disasters, effects of climate change and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases. the need for conversion of currencies declines as cross-border travel is impacted. moreover, if our financial institution clients decide to change practices (e.g., prohibit certain transactions or increase account holder fees associated with cross-border transactions), there could be a decline in account holder spending because the value proposition to the consumer could be reduced. transactions outside the u.s. represent an increasingly important part of our strategy, which we hope will continue to grow. however, a decline in non-u.s. and cross-border activity and multi-currency transactions would decrease the number of cross-border transactions we process and our revenues and profitability may be materially and adversely affected as a consequence. we risk loss or insolvency if our clients fail to fund settlement obligations for which we have provided indemnifications . we indemnify issuers and acquirers for any settlement loss they suffer due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to fund its settlement obligations in accordance with the visa rules. in certain instances, we may indemnify issuers or acquirers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. this indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. while the amount of our indemnification obligations has no limit, our exposure under the indemnification is restricted to the amount of unsettled visa payment transactions at any point in time. concurrent settlement failures involving more than one of our largest clients, several of our smaller clients or systemic operational failures lasting more than a single day could cause us to exceed our available financial resources and impact our liquidity. even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may be unable to recover the amount of such payment. this could expose us to significant losses, and harm our business. see note 11 settlement guarantee management to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. some of our clients are considered group members under the visa rules. as a result, some of these group members have elected to limit their responsibility for settlement losses arising from the failure of their constituent 22 table of contents financial institutions in exchange for managing their constituent financial institutions in accordance with our credit risk policy. to the extent that any settlement failure resulting from a constituent financial institution exceeds the limits established by our credit risk policy, we would have to absorb the cost of such settlement failure, which could impact our liquidity. the use of our products and our revenues could decline if we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative payment programs and services or comply with new laws and regulations . rapid, significant technological changes continue to confront the payments industry. these include developments in mobile and other proximity payment and acceptance, ecommerce, tokenization, crypto-currency and blockchain technologies. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. in addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we work closely with third parties, including some potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge. these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, new laws and regulations, resistance to change from clients or merchants, or third parties' intellectual property rights. if we are unable to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards, it could reduce the use of our products and harm our business. the perception of our brands and our business could be harmed if our transaction processing systems are disrupted or compromised . processing or other technology malfunctions, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in long-distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorism, effects of climate change or other catastrophic events may disrupt or compromise our transaction processing systems. in addition, we may be susceptible to physical or computer-based attacks by terrorists or hackers due to our role in the global payments industry. these concerns about security are increased when information is transmitted over the internet and new technologies are used to conduct financial transactions. threats include cyberattacks such as computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial-of-service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing. any of these incidents could result in a degradation or disruption of our services or damage to our properties, equipment and data. they could also compromise data security. if such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. finally, potential and actual attacks could also result in increased costs, both for recovery and for prevention against future attacks. additionally, we rely on service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. if a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require for similar reasons, the failure could interrupt our services. because of the centrality of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of our brands' reliability and harm our business. we may encounter account data breaches, cyberattacks or system failures involving card or other data processed, stored or transmitted by third parties or by us . we, our clients, merchants, and other service providers process, store or transmit account holder and other information in connection with visa-branded cards and payment products. in addition, our clients may use third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. the security measures and procedures we, our clients, merchants and other service providers have in place to protect sensitive account holder data and other information may not be successful or sufficient to counter all data breaches, cyberattacks or system failures . defending against even unsuccessful attempts to access our systems could materially increase our costs. a failure or breach of the systems processing, storing or transmitting sensitive account holder data and other information could lead to fraudulent activity involving visa-branded cards, reputational damage, claims against us, and loss of clients. if we are sued in any lawsuit in connection with any data security breach, we could be involved in protracted litigation. if unsuccessful in defending such lawsuits, we may have to pay damages or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could harm our business. in addition, any reputational damage resulting from an account data breach, cyberattacks or system failure at one or more of our clients, merchants or other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of visa-branded cards, which could harm our payments volume, revenues and future growth prospects. finally, a breach may also subject visa to additional regulations or 23 table of contents governmental or regulatory investigations, which could result in significant compliance costs, fines or enforcement actions against the company or potential restrictions imposed by regulators on our ability to process transactions. fraudulent or other illegal activity involving visa-branded cards or payment products could harm our business . criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture account holder and other information. they use this information to conduct fraudulent transactions involving our payment products. outsourcing and specialization of functions within the payments system are increasing. as a result, more third parties are involved in processing transactions using visa-branded cards or payment products. a rise in fraud levels and other illegal activities involving visa-branded cards or payment products could lead to reputational damage to our brands. this could reduce the use and acceptance of visa-branded cards and payment products, or lead to greater regulation, which could increase our compliance costs, lower our payments volume and harm our overall business. failure to maintain interoperability with visa europe's systems could damage the business and global perception of the visa brands . until our proposed acquisition of visa europe closes and for a period of time afterwards while visa europe's systems are being integrated with visa's systems, visa and visa europe will continue to maintain mostly separate authorization, clearing and settlement systems. as a result, we have to ensure that the two systems can process every transaction involving both of our territories, regardless of where it originates. visa europe's independent system operations could present challenges to our business due to increasing costs and difficulty in maintaining the interoperability of our respective systems. any inconsistency in the payment processing services and products between visa europe and us could negatively affect account holders from visa europe using payment products in the countries we serve or our account holders using payment products in visa europe's region. failure to authorize, clear and settle inter-territory transactions quickly and accurately could harm our business and impair the global perception of our brands. structural and organizational risks we may experience added costs and challenges in operating our business in certain territories due to our relationship with visa europe . until our proposed acquisition of visa europe closes, visa europe's exclusive license of our trademarks and technologies under the framework agreement gives us little ability to control and oversee visa europe's operations in its region. if we want to change a global rule or to implement certain changes that may be viewed as unfavorable to visa europe and its members, visa europe is not required to implement the changes unless we agree to pay for the associated implementation costs. this may result in added costs and expenses to our business. furthermore, the licenses granted under the framework agreement may raise licensing, payment and associated tax treatment concerns. until our proposed acquisition of visa europe closes, visa europe may hinder our ability to acquire new businesses or to operate them effectively in its region. if the acquired business has operations in visa europe's region, visa europe may play a significant part in influencing our ongoing operational decisions and costs there. finally, visa europe may undertake operational and litigation strategies, including, but not limited to, our ongoing litigation in the u.k. and our ongoing case with the european commission, that may adversely impact our business and reputation globally. we may be unable to address the opportunities and challenges presented by our strategy and the increasingly global, dynamic, competitive, economic and regulatory environment . for us to remain organizationally effective, we must effectively empower and deploy our management and operational resources, and incorporate both global and local perspectives into our decisions and processes. if we fail to do so, we may be unable to expand quickly, and the results of our expansion may be unsatisfactory. in addition, if we are unable to make decisions quickly, assess our opportunities and risks, execute our strategy and implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes, as needed, we may not be successful in this increasingly global, dynamic, competitive, economic and regulatory environment. 24 table of contents we may be unable to attract and retain key management and other key employees . our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success. our senior management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. we may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms that are competitive with the rest of the market. failure to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees, or failure to develop and implement a viable succession plan, could adversely affect our business and our future success. future sales of our class a common stock, or the end of transfer restrictions on our class b common stock, could result in dilution to holders of our existing class a common stock . the market price of our class a common stock could fall as a result of many factors. under our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan, upon final resolution of our u.s. covered litigation, all class b common stock will become convertible into class a common stock. future offerings of our class a common stock or the end of the transfer restrictions on our class b common stock would increase the number of class a common stock outstanding, which could adversely affect the market price and dilute the voting power of our existing class a common stock. likewise, if we complete the proposed acquisition of visa europe and issue the preferred shares, similar impacts on market price and dilution to our existing class a common stock could occur upon conversion of the preferred shares into class a common shares. the market price of our class a common stock may also suffer from the perception that such an increase in the number of class a common stock outstanding could occur in the future. if funds are released from escrow after the resolution of the litigation covered by our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan, the value of our class a common stock will be diluted . under our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan, funds still in the escrow account after the resolution of all u.s. covered litigation will be released back to us. at that time, each share of class b common stock will become convertible into shares of class a common stock, benefiting the holders of class b common stock. this in turn will result in dilution of the interest of holders of class a common stock. the amount of funds released and the market price of our class a common stock will determine the extent of the dilution. holders of our class b and c common stock may have different interests than our holders of our class a common stock concerning certain significant transactions . although their voting rights are limited, holders of our class b and c common stock can vote on certain significant transactions. these include a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business and any other vote required under delaware law. the holders of these shares may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class a common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with holders of class a common stock. likewise, if we complete the proposed acquisition of visa europe and issue the preferred shares, a similar dynamic may occur with the holders of the preferred shares. anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and under delaware law could delay or prevent a takeover attempt or a change in control . provisions contained in our current certificate of incorporation, in our current bylaws and under delaware law could delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable. for instance, except for limited exceptions, no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class a common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance. in addition, except for common stock previously issued in connection with our reorganization to visa members, as defined in our current certificate of incorporation, no competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may hold more than 5% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis. we may not be able to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock in the future . since august 2008, we have paid cash dividends quarterly on our class a, b and c common stock. the payment of dividends, if any, is subject to the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including, but not limited to, our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, covenants in our debt instruments and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. if, as a result of these factors, we cannot generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to pay dividends to all of our stockholders. specifically, if a dividend is declared or paid, an equivalent amount must be paid on each class or series of our common stock (and on the preferred shares we are obligated to issue if we complete our proposed acquisition of visa europe). 25 table of contents acquisitions, strategic investments and entries into new businesses could disrupt our business . although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to successfully finance, partner with or integrate them. such transactions, including our anticipated acquisition of visa europe, would present significant challenges and risks. in cases where strategic acquisitions or investments are not successfully implemented or completed, our financial condition or results of operations could be negatively impacted. we may incur substantial debt for strategic acquisitions or investments, which could adversely impact our credit ratings . achieving the benefits of an acquisition is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business and systems into our existing operations, successfully managing new risks associated with the acquired business and achieving expected synergies, any of which we may be unable to achieve on a timely basis or at all. until our acquisition of visa europe is completed, we are subject to the terms of the exclusive license granted to visa europe in most acquisitions and major investments that involve countries in visa europe's territory, which impacts our ability to expand or conduct business in those regions. regulatory constraints, particularly competition regulations, may also affect the extent to which we can maximize the value of our acquisitions or investments. acquisitions outside the u.s. may present unique challenges or increase our exposure to risks associated with foreign operations, including foreign currency risks and the risks of complying with foreign regulations. furthermore, the integration of any acquisition or investment will take time and resources from our core business and may disrupt our operations. we may spend time and money on acquisitions or investments that do not increase our revenues. although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of and investments in businesses, products and technologies and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that they will be successful. with the evolution of technology and the opening of new market segments, we may choose to participate in areas in which we have not engaged in the past, either through acquisitions or through organic development. these include digital, ecommerce, loyalty services and mobile payments. our recent entry into these businesses requires additional resources and presents an additional degree of risk, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. risks relating to our proposed acquisition of visa europe we may not be able to complete the acquisition of visa europe on the terms currently contemplated or at all . on november 2, 2015, we announced a definitive agreement to acquire visa europe ltd. we and visa europe have agreed to use all reasonable efforts to take all actions reasonably necessary to complete the acquisition. there is no assurance, however, that the acquisition will ultimately be completed, as the obligations of the parties to complete the acquisition are subject to various conditions. these conditions include, among others: receipt of necessary regulatory approvals; absence of any material adverse effect (as determined under the definitive transaction documentation) on visa europe or the company since september 30, 2014; absence of legal restraints that prohibit the closing of the acquisition; the u.k. loss sharing agreement remaining in full force and effect and the litigation management deed having been fully executed and remaining in full force and effect; compliance by each party in all material respects with its obligations under the acquisition agreement; and visa europe holding the full power and authority to effect the transaction. the acquisition agreement may be terminated by us or visa europe, subject to specified exceptions, if the acquisition is not completed by august 2, 2016, or if legal restraints that prohibit the closing have become final and non-appealable. 26 table of contents if we fail to complete the acquisition, visa europe would continue to have the right to require us to purchase all outstanding capital stock from visa europe's members under the terms of the put option (as it existed prior to its amendment in connection with the proposed acquisition). given current economic conditions, the purchase price under the terms of the put option would likely be in excess of $15 billion. we may not have the resources to fund the purchase price, particularly if the reason we failed to complete the acquisition was due to our inability to raise debt financing. financing the acquisition of visa europe exposes us to risk . to finance the visa europe acquisition, we expect to issue senior unsecured debt in an amount ranging between $15 and $16 billion in the first half of fiscal 2016, with maturities ranging between two and 30 years depending on market conditions. we cannot predict whether we will be able to issue this debt on favorable terms, in this timeframe, or at all. if we are unable to issue this debt on favorable terms, the cost to us of financing the acquisition may be higher than we currently expect. moreover, although we currently anticipate that the issuance of this debt will not adversely impact our credit ratings, there can be no assurance that one or more credit rating agencies will not lower our credit ratings, particularly if there is a perceived deterioration in our business or financial prospects. any lowering of our credit ratings before or in connection with the issuance of this debt would be expected to increase the cost of financing the acquisition. if we are unable to issue this debt and are not able to obtain alternative financing on terms that are acceptable to us, we may be unable to complete the acquisition, which could expose us to liability to visa europe and its shareholders. if we issue this debt but then fail to complete the acquisition, we will nevertheless incur interest expense, which may be higher than any returns we are able to achieve through investing the proceeds, in our business or otherwise. in addition, we may be obliged to redeem this debt at a redemption price that exceeds the net proceeds to us from its initial issuance. we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the visa europe acquisition . even if we complete the visa europe acquisition, a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits to us from the acquisition. for example: the process of integrating visa europe's operations into ours may be more difficult and/or may require more resources than we anticipate; we may assume unexpected liabilities; we may face an increased risk of customer loss, for example if our european bank customers that were previously members of visa europe choose to expand business relationships with our competitors or otherwise support or engage in competing card or other payment solutions; there may be unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties, commercial issues or conditions, and expenditures; we would become subject to eu and other regulations that govern the operations of visa europe, including new regulations governing the separation of scheme and processing that have not yet been fully defined, as well as any ongoing or future litigation involving visa europe; we may fail to retain key personnel of visa europe; the transaction may divert the time and resources of our senior management and disrupt our current operations to a greater degree than we currently contemplate; we may not be able to repurchase shares of our class a common stock in amounts sufficient to offset the dilution resulting from the preferred stock that we intend to issue as part of the acquisition consideration; and 27 table of contents we may incur higher costs to finance the transaction than we currently contemplate. if we do not successfully implement the visa europe acquisition or the acquisition is not completed on the terms we currently contemplate, our financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be negatively impacted. in particular, although we currently expect the visa europe acquisition to be mildly accretive to adjusted earnings per share in fiscal year 2017 (before one-time integration costs), if the expenses associated with integrating visa europe into our operations and financing the acquisition are higher than we currently contemplate, if we fail to achieve our revenue expectations due to unexpected customer losses or otherwise, or if we do not achieve the benefits we anticipate from revenue synergies, cost savings, and increased repurchases of class a common stock, we may not achieve this goal. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss arising from adverse changes in market factors. our exposure to financial market risks results primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. aggregate risk exposures are monitored on an ongoing basis. foreign currency exchange rate risk although most of our activities are transacted in u.s. dollars, we are exposed to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations are primarily related to adverse changes in the u.s. dollar value of revenues generated from foreign currency-denominated transactions and adverse changes in the u.s. dollar value of payments in foreign currencies, primarily for expenses at our non-u.s. locations. we manage these risks by entering into foreign currency forward contracts that hedge exposures of the variability in the u.s. dollar equivalent of anticipated non-u.s. dollar denominated cash flows. our foreign currency exchange rate risk management program reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. the aggregate notional amounts of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding in our exchange rate risk management program, including contracts not designated for cash flow hedge accounting, were $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion at september 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. the aggregate notional amount outstanding at september 30, 2015 is fully consistent with our strategy and treasury policy aimed at reducing foreign exchange risk below a predetermined and approved threshold. however, actual results could materially differ from our forecast. the effect of a hypothetical 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar is estimated to create an additional fair value gain or loss of approximately $91 million on our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at september 30, 2015 . see note 1 summary of significant accounting policies and note 12 derivative financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements. we are also subject to foreign currency exchange risk in daily settlement activities. this risk arises from the timing of rate setting for settlement with clients relative to the timing of market trades for balancing currency positions. risk in settlement activities is limited through daily operating procedures, including the utilization of visa settlement systems and our interaction with foreign exchange trading counterparties. interest rate risk our investment portfolio assets are held in both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate securities. these assets are included in cash equivalents and short-term or long-term available-for-sale investments. investments in fixed-rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. the fair value of fixed-rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. additionally, a falling-rate environment creates reinvestment risk because as securities mature, the proceeds are reinvested at a lower rate, generating less interest income. historically, we have been able to hold investments until maturity. neither our operating results or cash flows have been, nor are expected to be, materially impacted by a sudden change in market interest rates. the fair value balances of our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2015 and 2014 were $4.4 billion and $3.0 billion , respectively. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would create an estimated change in fair value of approximately $48 million on our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2015 . the fair value balances of our adjustable-rate debt securities were $1.7 billion and $1.9 billion at september 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. visa europe put option we have a liability related to the put option with visa europe, which is recorded at fair value at september 30, 2015 based on its unamended terms. we are required to assess the fair value of the put option on a quarterly basis and record adjustments as necessary. in the determination of the fair value of the unamended put option at september 30, 2015 , we assumed a 40% probability of exercise by visa europe at some point in the future and a p/e differential, at the time of exercise, of approximately 1.5 x. the use of a probability of exercise 5% higher than our estimate would have resulted in an increase of approximately $37 million in the value of the unamended put option. an increase of 1.0x in the assumed p/e differential would have resulted in an increase of approximately $249 51 table of contents million in the value of the unamended put option. see liquidity and capital resources and critical accounting estimates above. pension plan risk at september 30, 2015 and 2014 , our u.s. defined benefit pension plan assets were $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion , respectively, and projected benefit obligations were $1.0 billion and $983 million , respectively. a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of pension plan assets and a 1% decrease in the discount rate would result in an aggregate decrease of approximately $248 million in the funded status and an increase of approximately $30 million in pension cost. we will continue to monitor the performance of pension plan assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of our contribution to the pension plan for fiscal 2016 , if any, which would be made in september 2016. 52 table of contentsrisk factors regulatory risks 14 table of contents increased regulation of the global payments industry, including with respect to interchange reimbursement fees, operating rules and related practices, could harm our business . regulators around the world have been establishing or increasing their authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments industry. see item 1. business government regulation for more information . in the u.s. and many other jurisdictions, we have historically set default interchange reimbursement fees. even though we generally do not receive any revenue related to interchange reimbursement fees in a purchase transaction (those fees are paid by the acquirers to the issuers), interchange reimbursement fees are a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. consequently, changes to these fees, whether voluntarily or by mandate, can substantially affect our overall payments volumes and revenues. interchange reimbursement fees, certain operating rules and related practices continue to be subject to increased government regulation globally, and regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions have reviewed or are reviewing these fees, rules and practices. for example, in 2011, in accordance with the u.s. dodd-frank act, the u.s. federal reserve capped the maximum u.s. debit interchange reimbursement rate received by large financial institutions at 21 cents plus 5 basis points, plus a possible fraud adjustment of 1 cent. this amounted to a significant reduction in the average system-wide interchange reimbursement fees received by large issuers. the dodd-frank act also limited issuers' and our ability to adopt network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit and prepaid area, which also impacted our business. in 2015, the e.u.'s ifr placed an effective cap on consumer credit and consumer debit interchange fees for both domestic and cross border transactions (30 basis points and 20 basis points, respectively), significantly reducing the fees received by e.u. issuers. e.u. member states have the ability to further restrict these interchange levels within their territories. more recently, in september 2016, argentina's senate approved a bill to reduce existing caps on the merchant discount rate charged by acquirers to 1.5% for credit transactions and zero for debit transactions. in addition to the regulation of interchange reimbursement fees, a number of regulators impose restrictions on other aspects of our payments business. for example, government regulations or pressure may require or allow other networks to be supported by visa products or services or to have the other network's functionality or brand marks on our products. as innovations in payment technology have enabled us to expand into new products and services, they have also expanded the potential scope of regulatory influence. in addition, the e.u.'s requirement to separate scheme and processing adds costs and could impact the efficient integration of visa europe; the execution of our commercial, innovation and product strategies; our ability to provide effective customer service; and the amount of data available for use in fraud and risk systems and loyalty services. we are also subject to central bank oversight in the u.k. and the e.u. this oversight could result in new governance, reporting, licensing, cybersecurity, processing infrastructure, capital or credit risk management requirements. we could also be required to adopt policies and practices designed to mitigate settlement and liquidity risks, including increased requirements to maintain sufficient levels of capital and financial resources locally. increased central bank oversight could also lead to new or different criteria for financial institution participation in, and access to our payments system. additionally, regulators in other jurisdictions are considering or adopting approaches based on similar regulatory principles. regulators around the world increasingly take note of each other's approaches to regulating the payments industry. consequently, a development in one jurisdiction may influence regulatory approaches in another. the risks created by a new law or regulation in one jurisdiction have the potential to be replicated and to negatively affect our business in another jurisdiction or in other product offerings. the u.s. dodd-frank act and the e.u. ifr are developments with such potential, as are approaches taken by regulators in australia, canada and other countries. see note 20 legal matters of this report. similarly, new regulations involving one product offering may prompt regulators to extend the regulations to other product offerings. for example, credit payments could become subject to the same regulation as debit payments. additionally, regulation in an individual country could continue and expand. for example, in australia the reserve bank of australia (rba) initially capped credit interchange, but subsequently capped debit interchange as well. when we cannot set default interchange reimbursement rates at optimal levels, issuers and acquirers may find our payments system less attractive. this may increase the attractiveness of other payments systems, such as our competitors' closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. we believe some issuers may react to such regulations by charging new or higher fees to consumers, making our products less appealing to consumers. some acquirers may elect to charge higher merchant discount rates regardless of the visa interchange reimbursement rate, causing merchants not to accept our products or to steer customers to alternate 15 table of contents payments systems or forms of payment. in addition, in an effort to reduce the expense of their card programs, some issuers and acquirers have obtained, and may continue to obtain, incentives from us and reductions in the fees that we charge, which may directly impact our revenues. for these reasons, increased global regulation of the payments industry may make our products less desirable, diminish our ability to compete, reduce our transaction volumes and harm our business. government-imposed restrictions on payment systems may prevent us from competing against providers in certain countries . governments in various jurisdictions, such as in asia and the gulf cooperation countries in the middle east, protect certain domestic payment card networks, brands and processors. these governments may impose regulatory requirements that favor domestic providers or that mandate domestic payments processing be done entirely in that country, which would prevent us from overseeing the end-to-end processing of certain transactions. in china, for example, unionpay continues to enjoy advantages over other international networks, remains the sole processor of domestic payment card transactions and operates the sole domestic acceptance mark. though the chinese state council has announced that international schemes, such as visa would be able to participate in the domestic market and be eligible to apply for a license to operate a bank card clearing institution (bcci) in china, the full implementation guidelines for bcci's have yet to be finalized. in russia, legislation has effectively prevented us from processing in the domestic market and mandated that we migrate our domestic processing business to the state-owned nspk (or national payment card system), which is the only entity allowed to process domestically. due to our inability to oversee the end-to-end processing of transactions for cards carrying our brands in these countries, we depend on our close working relationships with our clients or third party processors in these regions to ensure transactions involving our products are processed effectively. national laws that protect domestic processing may increase our costs, decrease the number of visa products issued or processed, impede us from utilizing our global processing capabilities and control the quality of the services supporting our brands, restrict our activities, force us to leave countries or prevent us from entering new markets, all of which could harm our ability to operate our business, maintain or increase our revenues globally and extend our global brands. we are subject to complex and evolving global regulations that could harm our business and financial results . as a global payments technology company, we are subject to complex and evolving regulations that govern our operations. see item 1 business government regulation for more information on the most significant areas of regulation that affect our business. the impact of these regulations on us (and on our clients and other third parties) could limit our ability to enforce our payments system rules or require us to adopt new rules or change existing rules, and it may increase our compliance costs and reduce our revenue opportunities. we may face differing rules and regulations in matters like interchange reimbursement rates, preferred routing, domestic processing requirements, currency conversion, point-of-sale transaction rules and practices, privacy, data use or protection and associated product technology. as a result, the visa rules and our other contractual commitments may differ from country to country or by product offering. complying with these and other regulations increases our costs and can reduce our revenue opportunities. further, as regulations change, they may affect our existing contractual arrangements. if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty rapidly adjusting our product offerings, services and fees, and other important aspects of our business in the various regions where we operate. our compliance programs and policies are designed to support our compliance with a wide array of regulations and laws, and we continually enhance our compliance programs as regulations evolve. however, we cannot guarantee that our practices will be deemed compliant by all applicable regulatory authorities. in the event our controls should fail or we are found to be out of compliance for other reasons, we could be subject to monetary damages, civil and criminal penalties, litigation and damage to our global brands and reputation. furthermore, the evolving and increased regulatory focus on the payments industry could reduce the number of visa products our clients issue, the volume of payments we process and our revenue; negatively impact our brands and our competitive positioning; and limit the types of products and services that we offer, the countries in which our products are used and the types of customers and merchants who can obtain or accept our products, all of which could harm our business. we may be subject to tax examinations or disputes, or changes in the tax laws . 16 table of contents we exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may limit their accuracy. we are currently under examination by, or in disputes with, the u.s. internal revenue service, the u.k.'s hm revenue &amp; customs as well as tax authorities in other jurisdictions, and we may be subject to additional examinations or disputes in the future. relevant tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. failure to sustain our position in these matters could harm our cash flow and financial position. in addition, changes in existing laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental u.s. and international tax reform or those resulting from the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project being conducted by the organization for economic cooperation and development, may also increase our effective tax rate. a substantial increase in our tax payments could have a material, adverse effect on our financial results. see also note 19 income taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. litigation risks we may be adversely affected by the outcome of litigation or investigations, despite certain protections that are in place . we are involved in numerous civil actions and government investigations alleging violations of competition and antitrust law, consumer protection law and intellectual property law, among others. details of the claims and the status of those proceedings are described more fully in note 20 legal matters . legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations are inherently uncertain, expensive and disruptive to our operations. in the event we are found liable in any material litigation, proceedings or investigations, particularly in a large class action lawsuit or an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages, we may be required to pay significant awards or settlements. in addition, settlement terms, judgments or pressures resulting from legal proceedings or investigations may require us, to modify the default interchange reimbursement rates we set, revise the visa rules or the way in which we enforce our rules, modify our fees or pricing, or modify the way we do business, which may harm our business. finally, we are required by some of our commercial agreements to indemnify other entities for litigation asserted against them, even if visa is not a defendant. for certain litigation matters like the u.s. covered litigation and the ve territory covered litigation, which are described in note 3 u.s. and europe retrospective responsibility plans and note 20 legal matters , we have certain protections provided for in the respective retrospective responsibility plans. the two retrospective responsibility plans are different in the protections they provide and the mechanisms by which we are able to either fund the settlements and judgments in the case of the u.s. covered litigation or recoup covered losses in the case of the ve territory covered litigation. the failure of one or both of the retrospective responsibility plans to adequately insulate us from the impact of such settlements, judgments, losses or liabilities could materially harm our financial condition or cash flows, or even cause us to become insolvent. business risks we face intense competition in our industry . the global payments space is intensely competitive. as technology evolves, new competitors emerge and existing clients and competitors assume different roles. our products compete with cash, checks, electronic funds, virtual currency payments, global or multi-regional networks, other closed-loop payments systems, and alternative payment providers primarily focused on enabling payments through ecommerce and mobile channels. as the global payments space becomes more complex, we face increasing competition from our clients, emerging payment providers and other digital and technology companies. many of these providers have developed payments systems enabled through online activity in ecommerce and mobile channels, and are seeking to expand into other channels that compete with or replace our products and services. additionally, some of our competitors may develop substantially better technology, more widely adopted delivery channels or have greater financial resources. they may offer a wider range of programs, products and services, including some that are more innovative. they may use advertising and marketing strategies that are more effective than ours, achieving broader brand recognition, and greater issuance and merchant acceptance. they may also develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements. certain of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures or participate in different market segments. those business models may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to 17 table of contents regulatory, technological and other developments. in some cases, these competitors have the support of government mandates that prohibit, limit or otherwise hinder our ability to compete for transactions within certain countries and regions. some of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks, virtual currency providers, technology companies that enable the exchange of digital assets and certain alternate payments systems, operate closed-loop payments systems, with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. government actions or initiatives such as the u.s. dodd-frank act or the u.s. federal reserve's faster payments initiatives may provide them with increased opportunities to derive competitive advantages from these business models. similarly, regulation in europe under psd2 and in the u.k. through the psr may require us to open up access to, and allow participation in, our network to additional participants, and reduce the infrastructure investment and regulatory burden on potential competitors. we also run the risk of disintermediation due to factors such as emerging technologies, including mobile payments, alternate payment credentials, other ledger technologies or payment forms, and by virtue of increasing bilateral agreements between entities that prefer not to use our payments network for processing payments. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly with issuers and acquirers. we expect the competitive landscape to continue to shift and evolve. for example: competitors, clients and others are developing alternative payment networks or products that could disintermediate us from the transaction processing or the value-added services we provide to support such processing. examples include initiatives like the clearing house, an ach-based payment system comprised of large financial institutions, and ews, an alternative to an ach payment system that provides faster funds or real-time payments across p2p, corporate and government disbursement, bill pay and deposit check transactions; similarly, multiple countries are developing or promoting ach-based real-time payment systems or mandating local networks with clients that also present a risk of disintermediation to our business; parties that process our transactions may try to minimize or eliminate our position in the payments value chain; parties that access our payment credentials, tokens and technologies, including clients, technology solution providers or others might be able to migrate account holders and other clients to alternate payment methods or utilize our payment credentials, tokens and technologies to establish or help bolster alternate payment methods and platforms; competitors, clients and others may develop methods to use our payment credentials, tokens and technologies to compete with, impair or replace digital payment products that use and support our network and processing over our network; we may need to adjust our local rules and practices to remain competitive amidst evolving regulatory landscapes and competitors' practices; we may be asked to develop or customize certain aspects of our payment services for use by our customers, processors or other third parties, thereby increasing operational costs; we may need to agree to business arrangements with terms less protective of visa's proprietary technology and interests in order to compete with others, including those with issuers and with competing networks; participants in the payments industry may merge, form joint ventures or enable or enter into other business combinations that strengthen their existing business propositions or create new, competing payment services; competition may increase from alternate types of payment services, such as mobile payment services, ecommerce payment services, p2p payment services, faster payment initiatives and payment services that permit ach payments or direct debit of consumer checking accounts; 18 table of contents new players and intermediaries in the payments value chain may redirect transactions or steer participants away from our network; we may face increasing risk of others asserting their intellectual property rights and potential litigation, as market entrants include technology companies and companies from industries where patent rights are actively asserted; as this landscape is quickly evolving, we may not be able to foresee or respond sufficiently to emerging risks associated with new business, products, services and practices; or new or revised industry standards related to emv-chip payment technology, cloud-based payments, tokenization or other technologies set by organizations such as the international organization for standardization, american national standards institute and emvco may result in additional costs and expenses for visa and its clients, or otherwise negatively impact the functionality and competitiveness of our products and services. our failure to compete effectively in light of any such developments could harm our business and prospects for future growth. our revenues and profits are dependent on our client and merchant base, which may be costly to win, retain and maintain . our financial institution clients and merchants can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. while we have certain contractual protections, our clients, including some of our largest clients, generally have flexibility to issue non-visa products. further, in certain circumstances, our financial institution clients may decide to terminate our contractual relationship on relatively short notice without paying significant early termination fees. because a significant portion of our operating revenues is concentrated among our largest clients, the loss of business from any one of these larger clients could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. in order to stay competitive, we offer incentives to our clients to increase payments volume, enter new market segments and expand their use and acceptance of visa products and services. these include up-front cash payments, fee discounts and rebates, credits, performance-based incentives, marketing and other support payments that impact our revenues and profitability. in addition, we offer incentives to certain merchants or acquirers to win routing preference in situations where other network functionality is enabled on our products and there is a choice of network routing options. market pressures on providing incentives, fee discounts and rebates could moderate our growth. if we are not able to implement cost containment and productivity initiatives in other areas of our business or increase our volumes in other ways to offset the financial impact of these incentives, fee discounts and rebates, it may harm our net revenues and profits. in addition, it may be difficult or costly for us to acquire or conduct business with financial institutions or merchants that have longstanding exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors. these financial institutions or merchants may be more successful and may grow more quickly than our existing clients or merchants. in addition, if there is a consolidation or acquisition of one or more of our largest clients or co-brand partners by a financial institution client or merchant with a strong relationship with one of our competitors, it could result in our business shifting to a competitor, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our business. merchants' and processors' continued push to lower acceptance costs and challenge industry practices could harm our business . we rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our clients to maintain and expand the acceptance of visa products. certain large retail merchants have been exercising their influence in the global payments system to attempt to lower their acceptance costs by lobbying for new legislation, seeking regulatory enforcement, filing lawsuits and in some cases, refusing to accept visa products. if they are successful in their efforts, we may face increased compliance and litigation expenses and issuers may decrease their issuance of our products. in the u.s., the cost of payment card acceptance has emerged in the context of payment security. a number of merchant trade associations claim that emv cards without pin cardholder verification are not worth the investment. the october 2015 liability shift and ongoing transition to emv resulted in calls for a pin verification mandate. more recently, u.s. merchant-affiliated groups and processors have expressed concerns regarding the emv certification process. some 19 table of contents policymakers have called upon u.s. competition authorities to consider potential concerns arising from the roles of industry bodies such as emvco and the payment card industry security standards council. additionally, some merchants and processors have pushed for changes to industry practices and our requirements for visa acceptance at the point of sale, including the ability for merchants to accept only certain types of visa products, to mandate only pin authenticated transaction, to differentiate or steer among visa product types issued by different financial institutions, and to impose surcharges on customers presenting visa products as their form of payment. if successful, these efforts could adversely impact consumers' usage of our products, lead to regulatory enforcement and/or litigation, increase our compliance and litigation expenses, and harm our business. we depend on relationships with our financial institution clients, acquirers, merchants and other third parties . we depend significantly on relationships with our financial institution clients and on their relationships with customers and merchants to support our programs and services and thereby compete effectively in the marketplace. our relationships with industry participants are complex and require us to balance the interests of multiple third parties. for example, in the u.s., the emv migration has been resisted by certain merchants, leading to conflicts and litigation concerning the timing and scope of the liability shift, chargebacks and debit routing, among others. we engage in discussions with merchants, acquirers and processors to provide incentives to promote routing preference and acceptance growth. we engage in many payment card co-branding efforts with merchants, who receive incentives from us. as these and other relationships become more prevalent and take on a greater importance to our business, our success will increasingly depend on our ability to continue to engage in these discussions in order to sustain and grow these relationships. in addition, we depend on third parties, including suppliers, and our financial institution clients to provide various services associated with our payments network, on our behalf. to the extent that such parties fail to perform or deliver adequate services, our business and reputation could be harmed. if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands, if events occur that damage our reputation or brands or we experience brand disintermediation, it could harm our business . our brands are globally recognized and are key assets of our business. we believe that our clients and customers associate our brands with acceptance, security, convenience and universality. our success depends in large part on our ability to maintain the value of our brands and reputation of our products and services in the payments ecosystem, elevate the brand through new and existing products, services and partnerships, and uphold our corporate reputation. the increased use or popularity of products that we have developed in partnership with large technology and financial institution companies could result in consumer confusion or brand disintermediation and decrease the value of our brand. in addition, our brands and reputation may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including data security breaches, compliance failures, negative perception of our industry or the industries of our clients, actions by clients or other third parties, such as sponsorship partners, that do not reflect our views or are inconsistent with our own business practices, and fraudulent or other illegal activity using our payment products. if we are unable to maintain our reputation, or if events occur that damage our reputation, the value of our brands may be impaired, which could harm our relationships with clients, customers and the public, as well as impact our business. global economic, political, market and social events or conditions may harm our business . our revenues are dependent on the volume and number of payment transactions made by customers, governments and businesses, whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. in addition, almost half of our operating revenues are earned outside the u.s. international transaction revenues represent a significant part of our revenue and are an important part of our growth strategy. therefore, adverse macroeconomic conditions, including recessions, inflation, high unemployment, currency fluctuations, actual or anticipated large-scale defaults or failures, or slowdown of global trade, could decrease consumer and corporate confidence and reduce consumer, government and corporate spending, which have a direct impact on our revenues. in addition, outbreaks of illnesses, pandemics or other local or global health issues like the zika virus, political uncertainties like brexit, international hostilities, armed conflict, or unrest, and natural disasters could impact our operations, our clients and our activities in a particular location. these events could also reduce cross-border travel and spend, which impacts our international transaction revenues, which are generated by processing cross-border payments and cash volume transactions, as well as from foreign currency exchange transactions. any 20 table of contents such decline in cross-border activity could impact the number of cross-border transactions we process and our foreign currency exchange activities, and in turn reduce our revenues. a decline in economic conditions could impact our clients as well, and their decisions to reduce the number of cards, accounts and credit lines of their account holders, which ultimately impact our revenues. they may also implement cost-reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate marketing budgets, and decrease spending on optional or enhanced, value-added services from us. any events or conditions that impair the functioning of the financial markets, tighten the credit market or lead to a downgrade of our current credit rating could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access the capital and credit markets on favorable terms, which could affect our liquidity and capital resources, or significantly increase our cost of capital. if clients default on their settlement obligations, it may also impact our liquidity. any of these events could adversely affect the growth of our volumes and revenue. our indemnification obligation to fund settlement losses of our clients exposes us to significant risk of loss and may reduce our liquidity . we indemnify issuers and acquirers for any settlement loss they suffer due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to honor its settlement obligations in accordance with the visa rules. in certain instances, we may indemnify issuers or acquirers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. this indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. our indemnification exposure is generally limited to the amount of unsettled visa payment transactions at any point in time. concurrent settlement failures involving more than one of our largest clients, several of our smaller clients or systemic operational failures lasting more than a single day could cause us to exceed our available financial resources, which could negatively impact our financial position. even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may be unable to recover the amount of such payment. this could expose us to significant losses and harm our business. see note 11 settlement guarantee management to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. the united kingdom's proposed withdrawal from the european union could harm our business and financial results . in june 2016, a referendum was held in the united kingdom to determine whether the country should remain a member of the e.u., with voters approving withdrawal from the e.u. (commonly referred to as brexit). the u.k. government is working towards triggering article 50 of the lisbon treaty, which will commence the official e.u. withdrawal process. uncertainty over the terms of the u.k.'s departure from the e.u. could harm our business and financial results. in addition, other e.u. member countries may consider referendums regarding their e.u. membership. any of these events, along with any political changes that may occur as a result of brexit, could cause political and economic uncertainty in europe. as a result, our operations in the u.k., resulting from the recent acquisition of visa europe, as well as our global operations, could be impacted. the announcement of brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the u.s. dollar. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the british pound and other currencies may harm our results of operations as the local currency results of our international operations may translate into fewer u.s. dollars. uncertainty over brexit and currency fluctuations could also impact our clients, who may curtail or postpone investments in growing their credit portfolios, limit credit lines, modify fees and loyalty programs, or take other actions that harm our volume and revenue. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations in the u.k. and e.u. we, as well as our clients who have significant operations in the u.k., may incur additional costs and expenses as we adapt to potentially divergent regulatory frameworks from the rest of the e.u. and as a result, our visa rules and contractual commitments in the u.k. may be impacted. in addition, because we conduct business in and have operations in the u.k., we may need to apply for regulatory authorization and permission in separate e.u. member states. these factors may impact our ability to operate in the e.u. and u.k. seamlessly. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could harm our business and financial results. technology and information security risks failure to anticipate, adapt to or keep pace with new technologies in the payments industry could harm our business and impact our future growth . 21 table of contents the global payments industry is undergoing significant and rapid technological change, including mobile and other proximity payment and acceptance technologies, ecommerce, tokenization, crypto-currency, distributed ledger and blockchain technologies, and as a result we expect new services and technologies to continue to emerge and evolve. in addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we work closely with third parties, including some potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. it is difficult, however, to predict which technological developments or innovations will become widely adopted. it is also difficult to predict how these technologies may be regulated. moreover, some of these new technologies could be subject to intellectual property-related lawsuits or assertions, potentially impacting our development efforts and/or requiring us to obtain licenses. if we or our partners fail to adapt or keep pace with new technologies in the payments space in a timely manner, it could harm our ability to compete, decrease the value of our products and services to our clients, impact our intellectual property or licensing rights, and harm our business and impact our future growth. a failure in or breach of our networks or systems, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could harm our business . our information security and processing systems, as well as those of our clients, merchants and other third-party service providers, may experience damage or disruption from a number of causes, including power outages, computer and telecommunication failures, computer viruses, worms or other destructive software, internal design, manual or usage errors, cyber-attacks, terrorism, workplace violence or wrongdoing, catastrophic events, natural disasters and severe weather conditions. our visibility and role in the global payments industry may also put us at a greater risk of being targeted by hackers. in the normal course of our business, we have been the target of malicious cyber-attack attempts. additionally, several merchants have encountered substantial cybersecurity breaches and re-breaches affecting their customers, some of whom were visa account holders. although these merchant breaches have not had a direct, material impact on us, we believe these incidents are likely to continue and we may be unable to predict the direct or indirect impact of these future attacks to our business. we may also be impacted by breaches of our financial institution clients and third-party processors that affect the broader payment system. in addition, numerous and evolving information security threats, including advanced and persistent cyber-attacks, particularly on our internet-facing and reliant applications, could compromise the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. the security measures and procedures we, our clients, merchants and other service providers have in place to protect sensitive account holder data and other information may not be successful or sufficient to counter all data breaches, cyber-attacks or system failures. although we devote significant resources to our information security program and have implemented security measures to protect our systems and data, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent these known or unknown threats. if we are sued in connection with any data security breach, we could be involved in protracted litigation. if unsuccessful in defending such lawsuits, we may have to pay damages or change our business practices, any of which could harm our business. in addition, any reputational damage resulting from an account data breach, cyber-attack or system failure at one or more of our clients, merchants or other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our products, which could harm our payments volume, revenues and future growth prospects. finally, a breach may also subject visa to additional regulations or governmental or regulatory investigations, which could result in significant compliance costs, fines or enforcement actions or potential restrictions imposed by regulators on our ability to process transactions. we may experience errors, interruptions, delays or cessations of service in our information technology infrastructure and processing systems, which could significantly disrupt our operations; impact our clients and customers; damage our reputation; result in litigation, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, and regulatory fines or penalties; decrease the overall use and acceptance of our products; and be costly, time consuming and difficult to remedy. in the event of damage or disruption to our business due to these occurrences, we may not be able to successfully and quickly recover all of our critical business functions, assets and data through our current business continuity program. furthermore, while we maintain insurance, our coverage may not sufficiently cover all types of losses or claims that may arise. structural and organizational risks failure to maintain interoperability with visa europe's systems during the integration phase of our acquisition could damage the business and global perception of our brands . 22 table of contents while visa europe's systems are being integrated with our legacy systems, we and visa europe will continue to maintain mostly separate authorization, clearing and settlement systems. as a result, we have to ensure that the two systems can process every transaction involving both of our territories, regardless of where it originates. visa europe's independent system operations could present challenges to our business in the event of increasing costs or difficulties in maintaining the interoperability of our respective systems during the integration phase. the separation of payment card scheme and processing may also exacerbate this risk. any inconsistency in the payment processing services and products between visa europe and our legacy operations could negatively affect the experience of customers using visa products globally. failure to authorize, clear and settle inter-territory transactions quickly and accurately could harm our business and impair the global perception of our brands. we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the visa europe acquisition or those of our other strategic investments or acquisitions, and may face other risks and uncertainties as a result . in june 2016, we acquired 100% of the share capital of visa europe. we believe the acquisition positions us to create additional value through increased scale, efficiencies realized by the integration of both businesses, and benefits related to visa europe's transition from an association to a for-profit enterprise, although there can be no guarantee that we will realize these benefits. in addition, we may make other strategic investments or acquisitions, which like the visa europe acquisition are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside our control. the visa europe acquisition involves, and any future strategic endeavors may involve, significant risks and uncertainties, which could include: disruption to our ongoing business, including diversion of resources and management's attention from our existing business; greater than expected investment of resources or operating expenses; failure to develop the acquired business adequately; difficulty implementing controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company; challenges of integrating new employees, business cultures, business systems and technology; failure to retain employees, clients or partners of the acquired business; in the case of foreign acquisitions such as the acquisition of visa europe, risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political and regulatory risks associated with operating in new regions or countries. for more information on regulatory risks, please see item 1 business government regulations and item 1a risk factors regulatory risks above; discovery of unidentified issues after the acquisition or investment was made; failure to mitigate the liabilities of the acquired business; for example, while we have attempted to mitigate the risk of loss associated with certain visa europe litigation through the issuance of the preferred stock, there can be no guarantee that the liabilities associated with that litigation will not exceed the value of such preferred stock; dilutive issuance of equity securities, if new securities are issued; potential incurrence of debt, including the substantial amount of debt incurred in connection with the visa europe acquisition; negative impact on our financial position and/or statement of operations; and anticipated benefits or value of the investment or acquisition not materializing. we may be unable to attract, hire and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce, including key management . 23 table of contents the talents and efforts of our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success. our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. we may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms that are competitive with the rest of the labor market. failure to attract, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and diverse employee talent, or failure to develop and implement an adequate succession plan for the management team, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and our future success. the conversions of our class b and class c common stock or series b and series c preferred stock into shares of class a common stock would result in voting dilution to, and could impact the market price of, our existing class a common stock . the market price of our class a common stock could fall as a result of many factors. under our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan, upon final resolution of our u.s. covered litigation, all class b common stock will become convertible into class a common stock. in connection with the acquisition of visa europe, we issued series b and series c preferred stock, which will become convertible into class a common stock in stages based on developments in current and potential litigation and will become fully convertible no later than 2028 (subject to a holdback to cover any pending claims). conversion of our class b and class c common stock into class a common stock, or our series b and series c preferred stock into class a common stock, would increase the amount of class a common stock outstanding, which could adversely affect the market price of our existing class a common stock and would dilute the voting power of existing class a common stockholders. holders of our class b and c common stock and series b and series c preferred stock may have different interests than our class a common stockholders concerning certain significant transactions . although their voting rights are limited, holders of our class b and c common stock and, in certain specified circumstances, holders of our series b and series c preferred stock, can vote on certain significant transactions. with respect to our class b and c common stock, these transactions include a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business and any other vote required under delaware law. with respect to our series b and series c preferred stock, voting rights are limited to proposed consolidations or mergers in which holders of the series b and series c preferred stock would either (i) receive shares of stock or other equity securities with preferences, rights and privileges that are not substantially identical to the preferences, rights and privileges of the applicable series of preferred stock or (ii) receive securities, cash or other property that is different from what our class a common stockholders would receive. because the holders of classes of capital stock other than class a common stock are our current and former financial institution clients, they may have interests that diverge from our class a common stockholders. as a result, the holders of these classes of capital stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class a common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with interests of our class a common stockholders. delaware law, provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our capital structure could make a merger, takeover attempt or change in control difficult . provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our capital structure could delay or prevent a merger, takeover attempt or change in control that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, except for limited exceptions: no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class a common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance; no competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may hold more than 5% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis; the affirmative votes of the class b and c common stock and series b and series c preferred stock are required for certain types of consolidations or mergers; our stockholders may only take action during a stockholders' meeting and may not act by written consent; and only the board of directors, chairman or ceo may call a special meeting of stockholders. 24 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss arising from adverse changes in market factors. our exposure to financial market risks results primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. aggregate risk exposures are monitored on an ongoing basis. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations are primarily related to adverse changes in the functional currency value of revenues generated from foreign currency-denominated transactions and adverse changes in the functional currency value of payments in foreign currencies. we manage these risks by entering into foreign currency forward contracts that hedge exposures of the variability in the functional currency equivalent of anticipated non-functional currency denominated cash flows. our foreign currency exchange rate risk management program reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. the aggregate notional amounts of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding in our exchange rate risk management program, including contracts not designated for cash flow hedge accounting, were $2.7 billion and $1.2 billion at september 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. the aggregate notional amount outstanding at september 30, 2016 is fully consistent with our strategy and treasury policy aimed at reducing foreign exchange risk below a predetermined and approved threshold. however, actual results could materially differ from our forecast. the effect of a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the value of the functional currencies is estimated to create an additional fair value gain of approximately $160 million or loss of approximately $190 million , respectively, on our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at september 30, 2016 . see note 1 summary of significant accounting policies and note 12 derivative and non-derivative financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements. on june 21, 2016, we acquired 100% of the share capital of visa europe. on the third anniversary of the closing, we will pay additional purchase consideration of 1 billion , plus 4.0% compound annual interest. see note 2 acquisition of visa europe to our consolidated financial statements. as such, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to fluctuations of the u.s. dollar against the euro. a hypothetical 10% decline in the u.s. dollar against the euro, compared to the exchange rate at september 30, 2016, would increase the deferred purchase consideration liability by $123 million , including interest. 48 table of contents we are further exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk as the functional currency of visa europe is the euro. translation from the euro to the u.s. dollar is performed for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for revenue and expense accounts using an average exchange rate for the period. resulting translation adjustments are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss on the consolidated balance sheets. a hypothetical 10% change in the euro against the u.s. dollar compared to the exchange rate at september 30, 2016, could result in a foreign currency translation adjustment of $1.9 billion . in the third quarter, we designated our euro-denominated deferred consideration liability as a net investment hedge against a portion of our net investment in visa europe. changes in the value of the deferred cash consideration liability, attributable to a change in exchange rates at the end of each reporting period, partially offset the foreign currency translation of the company's net investment recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income in the company's consolidated balance sheet. see note 1 summary of significant accounting policies and note 12 derivative and non-derivative financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements. we are also subject to foreign currency exchange risk in daily settlement activities. this risk arises from the timing of rate setting for settlement with clients relative to the timing of market trades for balancing currency positions. risk in settlement activities is limited through daily operating procedures, including the utilization of visa settlement systems and our interaction with foreign exchange trading counterparties. interest rate risk our investment portfolio assets are held in both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate securities. these assets are included in cash equivalents and short-term or long-term available-for-sale investments. investments in fixed-rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. the fair value of fixed-rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. additionally, a falling-rate environment creates reinvestment risk because as securities mature, the proceeds are reinvested at a lower rate, generating less interest income. historically, we have been able to hold investments until maturity. neither our operating results or cash flows have been, nor are they expected to be, materially impacted by a sudden change in market interest rates. the fair value balances of our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2016 and 2015 were $5.1 billion and $4.4 billion , respectively. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would create an estimated change in fair value of approximately $49 million on our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2016 . the fair value balances of our adjustable-rate debt securities were $2.2 billion and $1.7 billion at september 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. pension plan risk at september 30, 2016 and 2015 , our u.s. defined benefit pension plan assets were $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion , respectively, and projected benefit obligations were $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion , respectively. a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of pension plan assets and a 1% decrease in the discount rate would result in an aggregate decrease of approximately $254 million in the funded status and an increase of approximately $40 million in pension cost. at september 30, 2016 , our non-u.s. defined benefit pension plan assets were $415 million and projected benefit obligations were $474 million . a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of pension plan assets and a 1% decrease in the discount rate would result in an aggregate decrease of approximately $127 million in the funded status and an increase of approximately $9 million in pension cost. we will continue to monitor the performance of pension plan assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of our contribution to the pension plan for fiscal 2017 , if any, which would be made in september 2017. 49 table of contentsrisk factors regulatory risks increased regulation of the global payments industry, including with respect to interchange reimbursement fees, operating rules, and related practices, could harm our business . regulators around the world have been establishing or increasing their authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments industry. see item 1. business government regulation for more information . in the united states and many other jurisdictions, we have historically set default interchange reimbursement fees. even though we generally do not receive any revenue related to interchange reimbursement fees in a payment transaction (those fees are paid by the acquirers to the issuers), interchange reimbursement fees are a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. consequently, changes to these fees, whether voluntarily or by mandate, can substantially affect our overall payments volumes and revenues. interchange reimbursement fees, certain operating rules and related practices continue to be subject to increased government regulation globally, and regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions have reviewed or are reviewing these fees, rules, and practices. for example, the u.s. federal reserve caps the maximum u.s. debit interchange reimbursement rate received by large financial institutions at 21 cents plus 5 basis points per transaction, plus a possible fraud adjustment of 1 cent. the dodd-frank act also limits issuers' and our ability to adopt network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit and prepaid area, which also impacts our business. the eu's ifr places an effective cap on consumer credit and consumer debit interchange fees for both domestic and cross-border transactions within europe (30 basis points and 20 basis points, respectively). eu member states have the ability to further restrict these interchange levels within their territories. more recently, in march 2017, argentina's central bank passed regulations that cap interchange fees on credit and debit transactions. in addition to the regulation of interchange reimbursement fees, a number of regulators impose restrictions on other aspects of our payments business. for example, government regulations or pressure may require us to allow other payments networks to support visa products or services, or to have the other network's functionality or brand marks on our products. as innovations in payment technology have enabled us to expand into new products and services, they have also expanded the potential scope of regulatory influence. in addition, the european union's requirement to separate scheme and processing adds costs and continues to impact the efficient integration of visa europe; the execution of our commercial, innovation and product strategies; our ability to provide effective account holder services; the amount of data available for use in fraud and risk systems; and loyalty services. 18 table of contents we are also subject to central bank oversight in some markets, including the united kingdom and within the european union. this oversight could result in new governance, reporting, licensing, cybersecurity, processing infrastructure, capital, or credit risk management requirements. we could also be required to adopt policies and practices designed to mitigate settlement and liquidity risks, including increased requirements to maintain sufficient levels of capital and financial resources locally, as well as localized risk management or governance. increased central bank oversight could also lead to new or different criteria for participation in and access to our payments system, including allowing non-traditional financial technology companies to act as issuers or acquirers. additionally, regulators in other jurisdictions are considering or adopting approaches based on similar regulatory principles. regulators around the world increasingly take note of each other's approaches to regulating the payments industry. consequently, a development in one jurisdiction may influence regulatory approaches in another. the risks created by a new law or regulation in one jurisdiction have the potential to be replicated and to negatively affect our business in another jurisdiction or in other product offerings. similarly, new regulations involving one product offering may prompt regulators to extend the regulations to other product offerings. for example, credit payments could become subject to similar regulation as debit payments. additionally, regulation in an individual country could expand. for example, the reserve bank of australia initially capped credit interchange, but subsequently capped debit interchange as well. when we cannot set default interchange reimbursement rates at optimal levels, issuers and acquirers may find our payments system less attractive. this may increase the attractiveness of other payments systems, such as our competitors' closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. we believe some issuers may react to such regulations by charging new or higher fees, or reducing certain benefits to consumers, which make our products less appealing to consumers. some acquirers may elect to charge higher merchant discount rates regardless of the visa interchange reimbursement rate, causing merchants not to accept our products or to steer customers to alternate payments systems or forms of payment. in addition, in an effort to reduce the expense of their payment programs, some issuers and acquirers have obtained, and may continue to obtain, incentives from us, including reductions in the fees that we charge, which may directly impact our revenues. for these reasons, increased global regulation of the payments industry may make our products less desirable, diminish our ability to compete, reduce our transaction volumes, and harm our business. government-imposed restrictions on payment systems may prevent us from competing against providers in certain countries, including significant markets such as china and russia . governments in a number of jurisdictions shield domestic payment card networks, brands, and processors from international competition by imposing market access barriers and preferential domestic regulations. to varying degrees, these policies and regulations affect the terms of competition in the marketplace and undermine the competitiveness of international payments networks. in the future, public authorities may impose regulatory requirements that favor domestic providers or mandate that domestic payments processing be performed entirely within that country, which would prevent us from managing the end-to-end processing of certain transactions. in russia, legislation effectively prevents us from processing domestic transactions. the central bank controlled national payment card system (nspk) is the only entity allowed to process domestically. in china, unionpay remains the sole processor of domestic payment card transactions and operates the sole domestic acceptance mark. although we have filed an application with the people's bank of china (pboc) to operate a bank card clearing institution (bcci) in china, the timing and the procedural steps remain uncertain. the approval process might require several years, and there is no guarantee that the license to operate a bcci will be approved or, if we obtain such license, that we will be able to successfully compete with domestic payments networks. furthermore, due to our inability to manage the end-to-end processing of transactions for cards in certain countries, we depend on our close working relationships with our clients or third-party processors to ensure transactions involving our products are processed effectively. our ability to do so may be adversely affected by regulatory requirements and policies pertaining to transaction routing or on-shore processing. co-badging and co-residency regulations may pose additional challenges in markets where visa competes with national schemes for issuance and routing. for example, in china, certain banks have issued dual-branded cards for which domestic transactions in china are processed by unionpay and transactions outside of china are processed by us or other international payments networks. the pboc is contemplating that dual-branded cards could be phased out over time as new licenses are issued to international companies to participate in china's domestic payments market. accordingly, we have been working with chinese issuers to issue visa-only branded cards for international travel, and later for domestic transactions after we obtain a bcci license. however, notwithstanding such efforts, the phase out of dual-branded cards may decrease our payment volumes and impact the revenue we generate in china. 19 table of contents mir and unionpay have grown rapidly in russia and china, respectively, and are actively pursuing international expansion plans. although regulatory barriers shield mir and unionpay from competition in russia and china, respectively, alternate payment providers such as alipay and wechat pay have rapidly expanded into e-commerce, offline, and cross-border payments, which could make it difficult for us to compete even if our license is approved in china. earlier this year, with strong backing from china's government, a new digital transaction routing system known as netlink was established. the pboc allowed alipay and other digital payment providers to invest in netlink. it and other such systems could have a competitive advantage in comparison with other international payments networks . in general, national laws that protect domestic processing may increase our costs; decrease our payments volumes and impact the revenue we generate in those countries; decrease the number of visa products issued or processed; impede us from utilizing our global processing capabilities and controlling the quality of the services supporting our brands; restrict our activities; limit our growth and the ability to introduce new products, services and innovations; force us to leave countries or prevent us from entering new markets; and create new competitors, all of which could harm our business. we are subject to complex and evolving global regulations that could harm our business and financial results . as a global payments technology company, we are subject to complex and evolving regulations that govern our operations. see item 1 business government regulation for more information on the most significant areas of regulation that affect our business. the impact of these regulations on us, our clients, and other third parties could limit our ability to enforce our payments system rules; require us to adopt new rules or change existing rules; affect our existing contractual arrangements; increase our compliance costs; require us to make our technology or intellectual property available to third parties, including competitors, in an undesirable manner; and reduce our revenue opportunities. we may face differing rules and regulations in matters like interchange reimbursement rates, preferred routing, domestic processing requirements, currency conversion, point-of-sale transaction rules and practices, privacy, data use or protection, and associated product technology. as a result, the visa rules and our other contractual commitments may differ from country to country or by product offering. complying with these and other regulations increases our costs and could reduce our revenue opportunities. if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty rapidly adjusting our product offerings, services, fees, and other important aspects of our business in the various regions where we operate. our compliance programs and policies are designed to support our compliance with a wide array of regulations and laws, such as anti-money laundering, sanctions and anti-corruption, and we continually enhance our compliance programs as regulations evolve. however, we cannot guarantee that our practices will be deemed compliant by all applicable regulatory authorities. in the event our controls should fail or we are found to be out of compliance for other reasons, we could be subject to monetary damages, civil and criminal penalties, litigation, investigations and proceedings, and damage to our global brands and reputation. furthermore, the evolving and increased regulatory focus on the payments industry could negatively impact or reduce the number of visa products our clients issue, the volume of payments we process, our revenues, our brands, our competitive positioning, our ability to use our intellectual property to differentiate our products and services, the quality and types of products and services we offer, the countries in which our products are used, and the types of consumers and merchants who can obtain or accept our products, all of which could harm our business. laws and regulations regarding the handling of personal data and information may impede our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against us . our business relies on the processing of data in many jurisdictions and the movement of data across national borders. legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data continue to evolve, and regulatory scrutiny in this area is increasing around the world. significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. for example, the gdpr, which becomes effective in may 2018, extends the scope of the eu data protection law to all companies processing data of eu residents, regardless of the company's location. the law requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including new rights such as the portability of personal data. although we have an extensive program underway to address gdpr requirements, our efforts to comply with gdpr and other privacy and data protection laws may entail substantial expenses, may divert resources from other initiatives and projects, and could limit the services we are able to offer. furthermore, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. the enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, regulations, or future enforcement actions or investigations could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. 20 table of contents we may be subject to tax examinations or disputes, or changes in tax laws . we exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may limit their accuracy. we are currently under examination by, or in disputes with, the u.s. internal revenue service, the uk's hm revenue &amp; customs as well as tax authorities in other jurisdictions, and we may be subject to additional examinations or disputes in the future. relevant tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. failure to sustain our position in these matters could harm our cash flow and financial position. in addition, changes in existing laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental u.s. and international tax reform or those resulting from the base erosion and profit shifting project being conducted by the organization for economic cooperation and development, may also increase our effective tax rate. a substantial increase in our tax payments could have a material, adverse effect on our financial results. see also note 18 income taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. litigation risks we may be adversely affected by the outcome of litigation or investigations, despite certain protections that are in place . we are involved in numerous litigation matters, investigations, and proceedings asserted by civil litigants, governments, and enforcement bodies alleging violations of competition and antitrust law, consumer protection law, and intellectual property law, among others (these are referred to as "actions" in this section). details of the most significant actions we face are described more fully in note 19 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. these actions are inherently uncertain, expensive, and disruptive to our operations. in the event we are found liable in any material action, particularly in a large class action lawsuit or an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages, or arising from a government investigation, we may be required to pay significant awards, settlements, or fines. in addition, settlement terms, judgments, or pressures resulting from actions may harm our business by requiring us to modify the default interchange reimbursement rates we set, revise the visa rules, or the way in which we enforce our rules, modify our fees or pricing, or modify the way we do business. the outcome of these actions may also influence regulators, investigators, governments, or civil litigants in the same or other jurisdictions, which may lead to the assertion of additional actions against visa. finally, we are required by some of our commercial agreements to indemnify other entities for litigation asserted against them, even if visa is not a defendant. for certain actions like the u.s. covered litigation and the ve territory covered litigation, which are described in note 3 u.s. and europe retrospective responsibility plans and note 19 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report, we have certain protections as provided in the respective retrospective responsibility plans. the two retrospective responsibility plans are different in the protections they provide and the mechanisms by which we are able to either fund settlements or judgments in the case of the u.s. covered litigation or recoup covered losses in the case of the ve territory covered litigation. the failure of one or both of the retrospective responsibility plans to adequately insulate us from the impact of such settlements, judgments, losses, or liabilities could materially harm our financial condition or cash flows, or even cause us to become insolvent. business risks we face intense competition in our industry . the global payments space is intensely competitive. as technology evolves, new competitors emerge and existing clients, and competitors assume different roles. our products compete with cash, checks, electronic funds, virtual currency payments, global or multi-regional networks, other closed-loop payments systems, and alternate payment providers primarily focused on enabling payments through ecommerce and mobile channels. as the global payments space becomes more complex, we face increasing competition from our clients, emerging payment providers, and other digital and technology companies. many of these providers have developed payments systems enabled through online activity in ecommerce and mobile channels, and are seeking to expand into other channels that compete with or replace our products and services. 21 table of contents additionally, some of our competitors may develop substantially better technology, more widely adopted delivery channels or have greater financial resources. they may offer more innovative or a wider range of programs, products, and services. they may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies that result in broader brand recognition, and greater issuance and merchant acceptance. they may also develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements. moreover, even if we successfully adapt to technological change and the proliferation of alternative types of payment services by developing and offering our own services in these areas, such services may provide less favorable financial terms for us than we currently receive from visanet transactions, which could hurt our financial results and prospects. certain of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures, or participate in different market segments. those business models may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to regulatory, technological, and other developments. in some cases, these competitors have the support of government mandates that prohibit, limit, or otherwise hinder our ability to compete for transactions within certain countries and regions. some of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks, virtual currency providers, technology companies that enable the exchange of digital assets, and certain alternate payments systems, operate closed-loop payments systems, with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. government actions or initiatives such as the dodd-frank act or the u.s. federal reserve's faster payments initiatives may provide them with increased opportunities to derive competitive advantages from these business models. similarly, regulation in europe under psd2 and the ifr, and in the united kingdom through the psr, may require us to open up access to, and allow participation in, our network to additional participants, and reduce the infrastructure investment and regulatory burden on potential competitors. we also run the risk of disintermediation due to factors such as emerging technologies, including mobile payments, alternate payment credentials, other ledger technologies or payment forms, and by virtue of increasing bilateral agreements between entities that prefer not to use our payments network for processing transactions. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly with issuers and acquirers. we expect the competitive landscape to continue to shift and evolve. for example: competitors, clients and others are developing alternate payment networks or products that could disintermediate us from the transaction processing or the value-added services we provide to support such processing. examples include initiatives from the clearing house, an association comprised of large financial institutions that is developing its own faster payments system, and early warning services, which operates zelle, a bank-offered alternative network that provides another platform for faster funds or real-time payments across a variety of payment types, including p2p, corporate and government disbursement, bill pay and deposit check transactions; similarly, multiple countries are developing or promoting real-time payment systems or mandating local networks with clients that also present a risk of disintermediation to our business; competition may increase from alternate types of payment services, such as mobile payment services, ecommerce payment services, p2p payment services, faster payment initiatives and payment services that permit ach or direct debits from consumer checking accounts; parties that process our transactions may try to minimize or eliminate our position in the payments value chain; parties that access our payment credentials, tokens and technologies, including clients, technology solution providers or others might be able to migrate account holders and other clients to alternate payment methods or use our payment credentials, tokens and technologies to establish or help bolster alternate payment methods and platforms; we may need to adjust our local rules and practices to remain competitive amidst evolving regulatory landscapes and competitors' practices; we may be asked to develop or customize certain aspects of our payment services for use by consumers, processors or other third parties, thereby increasing operational costs; 22 table of contents we may need to agree to business arrangements that may be less protective of visa's proprietary technology and interests in order to compete and we may face increasing risk of litigation concerning intellectual property, as more technology companies compete with our offerings; participants in the payments industry may merge, form joint ventures or enable or enter into other business combinations that strengthen their existing business propositions or create new, competing payment services; as this landscape is quickly evolving, we may not be able to foresee or respond sufficiently to emerging risks associated with new business, products, services and practices; or new or revised industry standards related to emv chip payment technology, cloud-based payments, tokenization or other technologies set by organizations such as the international organization for standardization, american national standards institute and emvco may result in additional costs and expenses for visa and its clients, or otherwise negatively impact the functionality and competitiveness of our products and services. our failure to compete effectively in light of any such developments could harm our business and prospects for future growth. our revenues and profits are dependent on our client and merchant base, which may be costly to win, retain, and maintain . our financial institution clients and merchants can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. while we have certain contractual protections, our clients, including some of our largest clients, generally have flexibility to issue non-visa products. further, in certain circumstances, our financial institution clients may decide to terminate our contractual relationship on relatively short notice without paying significant early termination fees. because a significant portion of our operating revenues is concentrated among our largest clients, the loss of business from any one of these larger clients could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in order to stay competitive, we offer incentives to our clients to increase payments volume, enter new market segments, and expand their use and acceptance of visa products and services. these include up-front cash payments, fee discounts, rebates, credits, performance-based incentives, marketing, and other support payments that impact our revenues and profitability. in addition, we offer incentives to certain merchants or acquirers to win routing preference in situations where other network functionality is enabled on our products and there is a choice of network routing options. market pressures on providing incentives, fee discounts, and rebates could moderate our growth. if we are not able to implement cost containment and productivity initiatives in other areas of our business or increase our volumes in other ways to offset the financial impact of these incentives, fee discounts, and rebates, it may harm our net revenues and profits. in addition, it may be difficult or costly for us to acquire or conduct business with financial institutions or merchants that have longstanding exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors. these financial institutions or merchants may be more successful and may grow more quickly than our existing clients or merchants. in addition, if there is a consolidation or acquisition of one or more of our largest clients or co-brand partners by a financial institution client or merchant with a strong relationship with one of our competitors, it could result in our business shifting to a competitor, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our business. merchants' and processors' continued push to lower acceptance costs and challenge industry practices could harm our business . we rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our clients to maintain and expand the acceptance of visa products. certain large retail merchants have been exercising their influence in the global payments system in certain jurisdictions, such as the united states, to attempt to lower their acceptance costs by lobbying for new legislation, seeking regulatory enforcement, filing lawsuits and in some cases, refusing to accept visa products. if they are successful in their efforts, we may face increased compliance and litigation expenses and issuers may decrease their issuance of our products. for example, in the united states, the cost of payment card acceptance has emerged in the context of payment security. a number of merchant trade associations claim that emv cards without pin cardholder verification are not worth the investment. the october 2015 liability shift and ongoing transition to emv resulted in calls for a pin verification mandate. u.s. merchant-affiliated groups and processors have expressed concerns regarding the emv certification process. some policymakers have called upon u.s. competition authorities to consider potential 23 table of contents concerns arising from the roles of industry bodies such as emvco and the payment card industry security standards council. additionally, some merchants and processors have advocated for changes to industry practices and visa acceptance requirements at the point of sale, including the ability for merchants to accept only certain types of visa products, to mandate only pin authenticated transactions, to differentiate or steer among visa product types issued by different financial institutions, and to impose surcharges on customers presenting visa products as their form of payment. if successful, these efforts could adversely impact consumers' usage of our products, lead to regulatory enforcement and/or litigation, increase our compliance and litigation expenses, and harm our business. we depend on relationships with our financial institution clients, acquirers, merchants, and other third parties . we depend significantly on relationships with our financial institution clients and on their relationships with account holders and merchants to support our programs and services, and thereby compete effectively in the marketplace. our relationships with industry participants are complex and require us to balance the interests of multiple third parties. for example, in the united states, the emv migration has been resisted by certain merchants, leading to conflicts and litigation concerning the timing and scope of the liability shift, chargebacks, and debit routing, among others. we engage in discussions with merchants, acquirers, and processors to provide incentives to promote routing preference and acceptance growth. we engage in many payment card co-branding efforts with merchants, who receive incentives from us. as these and other relationships become more prevalent and take on a greater importance to our business, our success will increasingly depend on our ability to sustain and grow these relationships. in addition, we depend on third parties, including suppliers, and our financial institution clients to provide various services associated with our payments network on our behalf. to the extent that such parties fail to perform or deliver adequate services, our business and reputation could be harmed. if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands, if events occur that damage our reputation or brands or we experience brand disintermediation, it could harm our business . our brands are globally recognized and are key assets of our business. we believe that our clients and account holders associate our brands with acceptance, security, convenience, speed, and reliability. our success depends in large part on our ability to maintain the value of our brands and reputation of our products and services in the payments ecosystem, elevate the brand through new and existing products, services and partnerships, and uphold our corporate reputation. the increased use or popularity of products that we have developed in partnership with large technology and financial institution companies could result in consumer confusion or brand disintermediation and decrease the value of our brand. we may not succeed in addressing consumer confusion and brand disintermediation due to the challenges of evolving digital form factors and ecommerce technologies. our brands and reputation may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including data security breaches; compliance failures; negative perception of our industry or the industries of our clients; actions by clients or other third parties, such as sponsorship partners that do not reflect our views or are inconsistent with our own business practices; and fraudulent, controversial or illegal activities using our payment products. if we are unable to maintain our reputation, our reputation is damaged or any threatened or resulting claims arise as a result, the value of our brands may be impaired, which could harm our relationships with clients, account holders, and the public, as well as impact our business. global economic, political, market, and social events or conditions may harm our business . our revenues are dependent on the volume and number of payment transactions made by consumers, governments, and businesses, whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. in addition, almost half of our operating revenues are earned outside the united states. international transaction revenues represent a significant part of our revenue and are an important part of our growth strategy. therefore, adverse macroeconomic conditions, including recessions, inflation, high unemployment, currency fluctuations, actual or anticipated large-scale defaults or failures, or slowdown of global trade, could decrease consumer and corporate confidence and reduce consumer, government, and corporate spending, which have a direct impact on our revenues. in addition, outbreaks of illnesses, pandemics, or other local or global health issues, political uncertainties, international hostilities, armed conflict, or unrest, and natural disasters could impact our operations, our clients, our activities in a particular location, and cross-border travel and spend. geopolitical trends towards nationalism, protectionism, and restrictive visa requirements, as well as continued activity and uncertainty around economic sanctions could also reduce cross-border travel and spend. any such decline in cross-border activity could impact the number of cross-border transactions we process and our currency exchange activities, which in turn would reduce our international transaction revenues. 24 table of contents a decline in economic conditions could impact our clients as well, and their decisions to reduce the number of cards, accounts, and credit lines of their account holders, which ultimately impact our revenues. they may also implement cost-reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate marketing budgets, and decrease spending on optional or enhanced, value-added services from us. any events or conditions that impair the functioning of the financial markets, tighten the credit market, or lead to a downgrade of our current credit rating could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access the capital and credit markets on favorable terms, which could affect our liquidity and capital resources, or significantly increase our cost of capital. if clients default on their settlement obligations, it may also impact our liquidity. any of these events could adversely affect the growth of our volumes and revenue. our indemnification obligation to fund settlement losses of our clients exposes us to significant risk of loss and may reduce our liquidity . we indemnify issuers and acquirers for settlement losses they may suffer due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to honor its settlement obligations in accordance with the visa rules. in certain instances, we may indemnify issuers or acquirers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. this indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the timing difference between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. our indemnification exposure is generally limited to the amount of unsettled visa payment transactions at any point in time and any subsequent amounts that may fall due relating to adjustments for previously processed transactions. concurrent settlement failures involving more than one of our largest clients, several of our smaller clients, or systemic operational failures could negatively impact our financial position. even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may be unable to recover the amount of such payment. this could expose us to significant losses and harm our business. see note 10 settlement guarantee management to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union could harm our business and financial results . in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union (commonly referred to as "brexit"). in march 2017, the uk government initiated the exit process under article 50 of the treaty of the european union, commencing a period of up to two years for the united kingdom and the other eu member states to negotiate the terms of the withdrawal. uncertainty over the terms of the united kingdom's departure from the european union could cause political and economic uncertainty in the united kingdom and the rest of europe, which could harm our business and financial results. brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations in the united kingdom and european union. we, as well as our clients who have significant operations in the united kingdom, may incur additional costs and expenses as we adapt to potentially divergent regulatory frameworks from the rest of the european union and as a result, our visa rules and contractual commitments in the united kingdom may be impacted. in addition, because we conduct business in and have operations in the united kingdom, we may need to apply for regulatory authorization and permission in separate eu member states. these factors may impact our ability to operate in the european union and united kingdom seamlessly. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could harm our business and financial results. technology and cybersecurity risks failure to anticipate, adapt to or keep pace with new technologies in the payments industry could harm our business and impact our future growth . the global payments industry is undergoing significant and rapid technological change, including mobile and other proximity payment and acceptance technologies, ecommerce, tokenization, crypto-currencies, new authentication technologies, including biometrics, distributed ledger and blockchain technologies, and as a result we expect new services and technologies to continue to emerge and evolve. in addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we work closely with third parties, including some potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. it is difficult, however, to predict which technological developments or innovations will become widely adopted and how these technologies may be regulated. moreover, some of these new technologies could be subject to intellectual property-related lawsuits or assertions, potentially impacting our development efforts and/or requiring us to obtain licenses. if we or our partners fail to adapt or keep pace with new technologies in the payments 25 table of contents space in a timely manner, it could harm our ability to compete, decrease the value of our products and services to our clients, impact our intellectual property or licensing rights, and harm our business and impact our future growth. a failure in or breach of our networks or systems, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could harm our business . our cybersecurity and processing systems, as well as those of financial institutions, merchants, and third-party service providers, may experience damage or disruption from a number of causes, including power outages, computer and telecommunication failures, computer viruses, malware or other destructive software, internal design, manual or usage errors, cyber-attacks, terrorism, workplace violence or wrongdoing, catastrophic events, natural disasters and severe weather conditions. our visibility and role in the global payments industry may also put us at a greater risk of being targeted by hackers. in the normal course of our business, we have been the target of malicious cyber-attack attempts. we may also be impacted by breaches of our financial institution clients, merchants or third-party processors. for instance, several merchants have encountered substantial data breaches affecting their customers, some of whom were visa account holders. although these merchant breaches have not had a direct, material impact on us, we believe these incidents are likely to continue and we are unable to predict the direct or indirect impact of these future attacks to our business. in addition, numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced and persistent cyber-attacks, phishing and social engineering schemes, particularly on our internet applications, could compromise the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of data in our systems. the security measures and procedures we, our clients, merchants, and third-party service providers have in place to protect sensitive consumer data and other information may not be successful or sufficient to counter all data breaches, cyber-attacks, or system failures. although we devote significant resources to our cybersecurity programs and have implemented security measures to protect our systems and data, and to prevent, detect and respond to data security incidents, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent these threats. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to disable or degrade systems change frequently, have become increasingly more complex and sophisticated, and may be difficult to detect for periods of time, we may not anticipate these acts or respond adequately or timely. as these threats continue to evolve and increase, we may be required to devote significant additional resources in order to modify and enhance our security controls and to identify and remediate any security vulnerabilities. if we are sued in connection with any data security breach or system failure, we could be involved in protracted litigation. if unsuccessful in defending such lawsuits, we may have to pay damages or change our business practices, any of which could harm our business. in addition, any reputational damage resulting from a data security breach or system failure at one or more of our clients, merchants or other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our products, which could harm our payments volume, revenues and future growth prospects. finally, a breach or failure may also subject visa to additional regulations or governmental or regulatory investigations, which could result in significant compliance costs, fines or enforcement actions, or potential restrictions imposed by regulators on our ability to process transactions. we may experience errors, interruptions, delays, or cessations of service in our information technology infrastructure and processing systems, which could significantly disrupt our operations; impact our clients and consumers; damage our reputation; result in litigation, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, and regulatory fines or penalties; decrease the overall use and acceptance of our products; and be costly, time consuming and difficult to remedy. in the event of damage or disruption to our business due to these occurrences, we may not be able to successfully and quickly recover all of our critical business functions, assets, and data through our business continuity program. furthermore, while we maintain insurance, our coverage may not sufficiently cover all types of losses or claims that may arise. structural and organizational risks failure to maintain interoperability with visa europe's systems during the integration could damage the business and global perception of our brands . in june 2016, we acquired visa europe. while visa europe's systems are being integrated with our legacy systems, we will continue to maintain mostly separate authorization, clearing, and settlement systems. as a result, we have to ensure that the two systems can process every transaction involving both of our territories, regardless of where the transaction originates. visa europe's independent system operations could present challenges to our business in 26 table of contents the event of increasing costs or difficulties in maintaining the interoperability of our respective systems during the integration phase. the separation of payment card scheme and processing may also exacerbate this risk. any inconsistency in the payment processing services and products between visa europe and our legacy operations could negatively affect the experience of consumers using visa products globally. moreover, we are beginning the process of migrating european activity onto visanet's systems in 2018 and successfully integrating our systems is expected to be time consuming, costly and technologically challenging. failure to authorize, clear, and settle inter-territory transactions quickly and accurately could harm our business and impair the global perception of our brands. we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or strategic investments, and may face risks and uncertainties as a result . as part of our overall business strategy, we may make acquisitions and strategic investments. for example, we believe the acquisition of visa europe positions us to create additional value through increased scale, efficiencies realized by the integration of both businesses, and benefits related to visa europe's transition from an association to a for-profit enterprise, although there can be no guarantee that we will realize these benefits. our current and future acquisitions and strategic investments may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: disruption to our ongoing business, including diversion of resources and management's attention from our existing business; greater than expected investment of resources or operating expenses; failure to develop the acquired business adequately; difficulty implementing controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company; challenges of integrating new employees, business cultures, business systems, and technologies; failure to retain employees, clients, or partners of the acquired business; in the case of foreign acquisitions, risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with operating in new regions or countries. for more information on regulatory risks, please see item 1 business government regulations and item 1a risk factors regulatory risks above; discovery of unidentified issues after the acquisition or investment was made; failure to mitigate the liabilities of the acquired business; dilutive issuance of equity securities, if new securities are issued; the incurrence of debt; negative impact on our financial position and/or statement of operations; and anticipated benefits, synergies, or value of the investment or acquisition not materializing. we may be unable to attract, hire, and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce, including key management . the talents and efforts of our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success. our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. we may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms that are competitive with the rest of the labor market. changes in laws and policies regarding immigration and work authorizations could make it more difficult for employees to work in, or transfer among, jurisdictions in which we have operations and could impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. failure to attract, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly qualified and diverse employee talent, or failure to develop and implement an adequate succession plan for the management team, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and our future success. 27 table of contents the conversions of our class b and class c common stock or series b and series c preferred stock into shares of class a common stock would result in voting dilution to, and could impact the market price of, our existing class a common stock . the market price of our class a common stock could fall as a result of many factors. under our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan, upon final resolution of our u.s. covered litigation, all class b common stock will become convertible into class a common stock. in connection with the acquisition of visa europe, we issued series b and series c preferred stock, which will become convertible into class a common stock in stages based on developments in current and potential litigation and will become fully convertible no later than 2028 (subject to a holdback to cover any pending claims). conversion of our class b and class c common stock into class a common stock, or our series b and series c preferred stock into class a common stock, would increase the amount of class a common stock outstanding, which could adversely affect the market price of our existing class a common stock and would dilute the voting power of existing class a common stockholders. holders of our class b and c common stock and series b and series c preferred stock may have different interests than our class a common stockholders concerning certain significant transactions . although their voting rights are limited, holders of our class b and c common stock and, in certain specified circumstances, holders of our series b and series c preferred stock, can vote on certain significant transactions. with respect to our class b and c common stock, these transactions include a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business and any other vote required under delaware law. with respect to our series b and series c preferred stock, voting rights are limited to proposed consolidations or mergers in which holders of the series b and series c preferred stock would either (i) receive shares of stock or other equity securities with preferences, rights and privileges that are not substantially identical to the preferences, rights and privileges of the applicable series of preferred stock or (ii) receive securities, cash or other property that is different from what our class a common stockholders would receive. because the holders of classes of capital stock other than class a common stock are our current and former financial institution clients, they may have interests that diverge from our class a common stockholders. as a result, the holders of these classes of capital stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class a common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with interests of our class a common stockholders. delaware law, provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our capital structure could make a merger, takeover attempt, or change in control difficult . provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our capital structure could delay or prevent a merger, takeover attempt, or change in control that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, except for limited exceptions: no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class a common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance; no competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may hold more than 5% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis; the affirmative votes of the class b and c common stock and series b and series c preferred stock are required for certain types of consolidations or mergers; our stockholders may only take action during a stockholders' meeting and may not act by written consent; and only the board of directors, chairman, or ceo may call a special meeting of stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss arising from adverse changes in market factors. our exposure to financial market risks results primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. aggregate risk exposures are monitored on an ongoing basis. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations are primarily related to adverse changes in the functional currency value of revenues generated from foreign currency-denominated transactions and adverse changes in the functional currency value of payments in foreign currencies. we manage these risks by entering into foreign currency forward contracts that hedge exposures of the variability in the functional currency equivalent of anticipated non-functional currency denominated cash flows. our foreign currency exchange rate risk management program reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. the aggregate notional amounts of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding in our exchange rate risk management program, including contracts not designated for cash flow hedge accounting, were $3.1 billion and $2.7 billion at september 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. the aggregate notional amount outstanding at september 30, 2017 is fully consistent with our strategy and treasury policy aimed at reducing foreign exchange risk below a predetermined and approved threshold. however, actual results could materially differ from our forecast. the effect of a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the value of the functional currencies is estimated to create an additional fair value gain of approximately $210 million or loss of approximately $250 million , respectively, on our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at september 30, 2017 . see note 1 summary of significant accounting policies and note 11 derivative and non-derivative financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. on june 21, 2016, we acquired 100% of the share capital of visa europe. on the third anniversary of the closing, we will pay additional purchase consideration of 1 billion , plus 4.0% compounded annual interest. see note 2 visa europe to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. as such, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to fluctuations of the u.s. dollar against the euro. a hypothetical 10% decline in the u.s. dollar against the euro, compared to the exchange rate at september 30, 2017 , would increase the deferred purchase consideration liability by $130 million , including interest. 50 table of contents we are further exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk as the functional currency of visa europe is the euro. translation from the euro to the u.s. dollar is performed for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for revenue and expense accounts using an average exchange rate for the period. resulting translation adjustments are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss on the consolidated balance sheets. a hypothetical 10% change in the euro against the u.s. dollar compared to the exchange rate at september 30, 2017 , would result in a foreign currency translation adjustment of $2 billion . we designate a portion of our euro-denominated deferred consideration liability as a net investment hedge against a portion of the foreign exchange rate exposure of our net investment of $18.8 billion in visa europe. changes in the value of the deferred cash consideration liability, attributable to a change in exchange rates at the end of each reporting period, partially offset the foreign currency translation of the company's net investment recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income in the company's consolidated balance sheet. see note 1 summary of significant accounting policies and note 11 derivative and non-derivative financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. we are also subject to foreign currency exchange risk in daily settlement activities. this risk arises from the timing of rate setting for settlement with clients relative to the timing of market trades for balancing currency positions. risk in settlement activities is limited through daily operating procedures, including the utilization of visa settlement systems and our interaction with foreign exchange trading counterparties. interest rate risk our investment portfolio assets are held in both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate securities. these assets are included in cash equivalents and short-term or long-term available-for-sale investments. investments in fixed-rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. the fair value of fixed-rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. additionally, a falling-rate environment creates reinvestment risk because as securities mature, the proceeds are reinvested at a lower rate, generating less interest income. historically, we have been able to hold investments until maturity. neither our operating results or cash flows have been, nor are they expected to be, materially impacted by a sudden change in market interest rates. the fair value balances of our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2017 and 2016 were $6.4 billion and $5.1 billion , respectively. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would create an estimated change in fair value of approximately $29 million on our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2017 . the fair value balances of our adjustable-rate debt securities were $1.8 billion and $2.2 billion at september 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. pension plan risk at september 30, 2017 and 2016 , our u.s. defined benefit pension plan assets were $1.1 billion at each year end, and projected benefit obligations were $0.9 billion and $1.1 billion , respectively. a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of pension plan assets and a 1% decrease in the discount rate would result in an aggregate decrease of approximately $241 million in the funded status and an increase of approximately $44 million in pension cost. at september 30, 2017 and 2016 , our non-u.s. defined benefit pension plan assets were $433 million and $415 million , respectively, and projected benefit obligations were $433 million and $474 million , respectively. a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of pension plan assets and a 1% decrease in the discount rate would result in an aggregate decrease of approximately $157 million in the funded status and an increase of approximately $11 million in pension cost. we will continue to monitor the performance of pension plan assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of our contribution to the pension plan for fiscal 2018 , if any, which would be made in september 2018. 51 table of contentsrisk factors regulatory risks we are subject to complex and evolving global regulations that could harm our business and financial results . as a global payments technology company, we are subject to complex and evolving regulations that govern our operations. see item 1 business government regulation for more information on the most significant areas of regulation that affect our business. the impact of these regulations on us, our clients, and other third parties could limit our ability to enforce our payments system rules; require us to adopt new rules or change existing rules; affect our existing contractual arrangements; increase our compliance costs; require us to make our technology or intellectual property available to third parties, including competitors, in an undesirable manner; and reduce our revenue opportunities. as discussed in more detail below, we may face differing rules and regulations in matters like interchange reimbursement rates, preferred routing, domestic processing requirements, currency conversion, point-of-sale transaction rules and practices, privacy, data use or protection, and associated product technology. as a result, the visa operating rules and our other contractual commitments may differ from country to country or by product offering. complying with these and other regulations increases our costs and could reduce our revenue opportunities. 18 table of contents if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty rapidly adjusting our product offerings, services, fees, and other important aspects of our business in the various regions where we operate. our compliance programs and policies are designed to support our compliance with a wide array of regulations and laws, such as anti-money laundering, anti-corruption, competition, privacy and sanctions, and we continually enhance our compliance programs as regulations evolve. however, we cannot guarantee that our practices will be deemed compliant by all applicable regulatory authorities. in the event our controls should fail or we are found to be out of compliance for other reasons, we could be subject to monetary damages, civil and criminal penalties, litigation, investigations and proceedings, and damage to our global brands and reputation. furthermore, the evolving and increased regulatory focus on the payments industry could negatively impact or reduce the number of visa products our clients issue, the volume of payments we process, our revenues, our brands, our competitive positioning, our ability to use our intellectual property to differentiate our products and services, the quality and types of products and services we offer, the countries in which our products are used, and the types of consumers and merchants who can obtain or accept our products, all of which could harm our business. increased regulation of the global payments industry, including with respect to interchange reimbursement fees, operating rules, risk management protocols and other related practices, could harm our business . regulators around the world have been establishing or increasing their authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments industry. see item 1. business government regulation for more information . in the united states and many other jurisdictions, we have historically set default interchange reimbursement fees. even though we generally do not receive any revenue related to interchange reimbursement fees in a payment transaction (in the context of credit and debit transactions, those fees are paid by the acquirers to the issuers; the reverse is true for certain transactions like atm), interchange reimbursement fees are a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. consequently, changes to these fees, whether voluntarily or by mandate, can substantially affect our overall payments volumes and revenues. interchange reimbursement fees, certain operating rules and related practices continue to be subject to increased government regulation globally, and regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions have reviewed or are reviewing these fees, rules, and practices. for example, regulations adopted by the u.s. federal reserve cap the maximum u.s. debit interchange reimbursement rate received by large financial institutions at 21 cents plus 5 basis points per transaction, plus a possible fraud adjustment of 1 cent. the dodd-frank act also limits issuers' and our ability to adopt network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit and prepaid area, which also impacts our business. the eu's ifr places an effective cap on consumer credit and consumer debit interchange fees for both domestic and cross-border transactions within europe (30 basis points and 20 basis points, respectively). eu member states have the ability to further reduce these interchange levels within their territories. more recently, countries in latin america have also adopted interchange caps. for example, in march 2017, argentina's central bank passed regulations that cap interchange fees on credit and debit transactions. in march 2018, brazil adopted interchange caps on debit transactions. when we cannot set default interchange reimbursement rates at optimal levels, issuers and acquirers may find our payments system less attractive. this may increase the attractiveness of other payments systems, such as our competitors' closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. we believe some issuers may react to such regulations by charging new or higher fees, or reducing certain benefits to consumers, which make our products less appealing to consumers. some acquirers may elect to charge higher merchant discount rates regardless of the visa interchange reimbursement rate, causing merchants not to accept our products or to steer customers to alternate payments systems or forms of payment. in addition, in an effort to reduce the expense of their payment programs, some issuers and acquirers have obtained, and may continue to obtain, incentives from us, including reductions in the fees that we charge, which may directly impact our revenues. in addition to the regulation of interchange reimbursement fees, a number of regulators impose restrictions on other aspects of our payments business. for example, governments such as in india may use regulation to further drive down merchant discount rates, which could negatively affect the economics of our transactions. similarly, the payment system regulator's review of the acquiring market in the united kingdom could lead to additional regulatory pressure on our business. with increased merchant lobbying, we could also begin to see regulatory interest in network fees. government regulations or pressure may also require us to allow other payments networks to support visa products or services, or to have the other network's functionality or brand marks on our products. as innovations in payment technology have enabled us to expand into new products and services, they have also expanded the potential scope of regulatory influence. in addition, the european union's requirement to separate scheme and processing adds costs and impacts the execution of our commercial, innovation and product strategies. 19 table of contents we are also subject to central bank oversight in some markets, including, brazil, russia, the united kingdom and within the european union. this oversight could result in new governance, reporting, licensing, cybersecurity, processing infrastructure, capital, or credit risk management requirements. we could also be required to adopt policies and practices designed to mitigate settlement and liquidity risks, including increased requirements to maintain sufficient levels of capital and financial resources locally, as well as localized risk management or governance. increased central bank oversight could also lead to new or different criteria for participation in and access to our payments system, including allowing non-traditional financial technology companies to act as issuers or acquirers. additionally, regulators in other jurisdictions are considering or adopting approaches based on similar regulatory principles. as we develop new product and service offerings to support our clients, the potential scope of regulatory obligations and scrutiny could also increase. for instance, new products and capabilities, including tokenization, and mobile and push payments, could bring increased licensing or authorization requirements in the countries where the product or capability is offered. finally, regulators around the world increasingly take note of each other's approaches to regulating the payments industry. consequently, a development in one jurisdiction may influence regulatory approaches in another. the risks created by a new law or regulation in one jurisdiction have the potential to be replicated and to negatively affect our business in another jurisdiction or in other product offerings. similarly, new regulations involving one product offering may prompt regulators to extend the regulations to other product offerings. for example, credit payments could become subject to similar regulation as debit payments. the reserve bank of australia initially capped credit interchange, but subsequently capped debit interchange as well. government-imposed restrictions on international payment systems may prevent us from competing against providers in certain countries, including significant markets such as china, india and russia . governments in a number of jurisdictions shield domestic payment card networks, brands, and processors from international competition by imposing market access barriers and preferential domestic regulations. to varying degrees, these policies and regulations affect the terms of competition in the marketplace and undermine the competitiveness of international payments networks. in the future, public authorities may impose regulatory requirements that favor domestic providers or mandate that domestic payments processing be performed entirely within that country, which would prevent us from managing the end-to-end processing of certain transactions. in russia, legislation effectively prevents us from processing domestic transactions. the central bank controlled national payment card system (nspk) is the only entity allowed to process domestically. in china, unionpay remains the sole processor of domestic payment card transactions and operates the sole domestic acceptance mark. although we have filed an application with the people's bank of china (pboc) to operate a bank card clearing institution (bcci) in china, the timing and the procedural steps remain uncertain. the approval process might require several years, and there is no guarantee that the license to operate a bcci will be approved or, if we obtain such license, that we will be able to successfully compete with domestic payments networks. recent regulatory initiatives in india also suggest growing nationalistic priorities, including a recent data localization mandate passed by the government, which has cost implications for us and could affect our ability to effectively compete with domestic payment providers. furthermore, regional groups of countries, such as the gulf cooperation countries in the middle east and a number of countries in southeast asia, are considering, or may consider, efforts to restrict our participation in the processing of regional transactions. the african development bank has also indicated an interest in supporting national payment systems in its efforts to expand financial inclusion and strengthen regional financial stability. geopolitical events, including sanctions, trade tensions or other types of activities could potentially intensify this activity, which could adversely affect our business. due to our inability to manage the end-to-end processing of transactions for cards in certain countries (e.g., russia and thailand), we depend on our close working relationships with our clients or third-party processors to ensure transactions involving our products are processed effectively. our ability to do so may be adversely affected by regulatory requirements and policies pertaining to transaction routing or on-shore processing. 20 table of contents co-badging and co-residency regulations may pose additional challenges in markets where visa competes with national networks for issuance and routing. for example, in china, certain banks have issued dual-branded cards for which domestic transactions in china are processed by unionpay and transactions outside of china are processed by us or other international payments networks. the pboc is contemplating that dual-branded cards could be phased out over time as new licenses are issued to international companies to participate in china's domestic payments market. accordingly, we have been working with chinese issuers to issue visa-only branded cards for international travel, and later for domestic transactions after we obtain a bcci license. however, notwithstanding such efforts, the phase out of dual-branded cards may decrease our payment volumes and impact the revenue we generate in china. mir and unionpay have grown rapidly in russia and china, respectively, and are actively pursuing international expansion plans, which could potentially lead to regulatory pressures on our international routing rule (which requires that international transactions on visa cards be routed over visanet). furthermore, although regulatory barriers shield mir and unionpay from competition in russia and china, respectively, alternate payment providers such as alipay and wechat pay have rapidly expanded into ecommerce, offline, and cross-border payments, which could make it difficult for us to compete even if our license is approved in china. last year, with strong backing from china's government, a new digital transaction routing system known as netlink was established. the pboc allowed alipay and other digital payment providers to invest in netlink. it and other such systems could have a competitive advantage in comparison with other international payments networks . in general, national laws that protect domestic providers or processing may increase our costs; decrease our payments volumes and impact the revenue we generate in those countries; decrease the number of visa products issued or processed; impede us from utilizing our global processing capabilities and controlling the quality of the services supporting our brands; restrict our activities; limit our growth and the ability to introduce new products, services and innovations; force us to leave countries or prevent us from entering new markets; and create new competitors, all of which could harm our business. laws and regulations regarding the handling of personal data and information may impede our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against us . our business relies on the processing of data in many jurisdictions and the movement of data across national borders. legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data continue to evolve, and regulatory scrutiny in this area is increasing around the world. significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. for example, the gdpr extends the scope of the eu data protection law to all companies processing data of eu residents, regardless of the company's location. the law requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. although we have an extensive data privacy program that addresses the gdpr requirements, our ongoing efforts to comply with gdpr and other privacy and data protection laws (such as the new california consumer privacy act effective as of january 2020 and the brazilian general data protection law effective as of february 2020) may entail substantial expenses, may divert resources from other initiatives and projects, and could limit the services we are able to offer. in addition, earlier this year, india adopted a data localization law that requires all payment system operators to store domestic transaction data only in india. such data localization requirements have cost implications for us, impact our ability to utilize the efficiencies and value of our global network, and could affect our strategy. furthermore, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. the enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, regulations, or future enforcement actions or investigations could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. 21 table of contents we may be subject to tax examinations or disputes, or changes in tax laws . we exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may limit their accuracy. we are currently under examination by, or in disputes with, the u.s. internal revenue service, the uk's hm revenue &amp; customs as well as tax authorities in other jurisdictions, and we may be subject to additional examinations or disputes in the future. relevant tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. failure to sustain our position in these matters could harm our cash flow and financial position. in addition, changes in existing laws, such as future regulatory guidance on the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act, tax law changes in the united states or foreign jurisdictions, or those resulting from the base erosion and profit shifting project being conducted by the organization for economic cooperation and development, may also materially affect our effective tax rate. a substantial increase in our tax payments could have a material, adverse effect on our financial results. see also note 16 income taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. litigation risks we may be adversely affected by the outcome of litigation or investigations, despite certain protections that are in place . we are involved in numerous litigation matters, investigations, and proceedings asserted by civil litigants, governments, and enforcement bodies alleging, among other things, violations of competition and antitrust law, consumer protection law, and intellectual property law (these are referred to as actions in this section). details of the most significant actions we face are described more fully in note 17 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. these actions are inherently uncertain, expensive, and disruptive to our operations. in the event we are found liable in any material action, particularly in a large class action lawsuit, such as one involving an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages, or we incur liability arising from a government investigation, we may be required to pay significant awards, settlements, or fines. in addition, settlement terms, judgments, or pressures resulting from actions may harm our business by requiring us to modify, among other things, the default interchange reimbursement rates we set, the visa operating rules or the way in which we enforce those rules, our fees or pricing, or the way we do business. the outcome of these actions may also influence regulators, investigators, governments, or civil litigants in the same or other jurisdictions, which may lead to additional actions against visa. finally, we are required by some of our commercial agreements to indemnify other entities for litigation brought against them, even if visa is not a defendant. for certain actions like those that are u.s. covered litigation or ve territory covered litigation, as described in note 2 u.s. and europe retrospective responsibility plans and note 17 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report, we have certain financial protections pursuant to the respective retrospective responsibility plans. the two retrospective responsibility plans are different in the protections they provide and the mechanisms by which we are protected. the failure of one or both of the retrospective responsibility plans to adequately insulate us from the impact of such settlements, judgments, losses, or liabilities could materially harm our financial condition or cash flows, or even cause us to become insolvent. business risks we face intense competition in our industry . the global payments space is intensely competitive. as technology evolves, new competitors or methods of payment emerge, and existing clients and competitors assume different roles. our products compete with cash, checks, electronic funds, virtual currency payments, global or multi-regional networks, other domestic and closed-loop payments systems, and alternate payment providers primarily focused on enabling payments through ecommerce and mobile channels. as the global payments space becomes more complex, we face increasing competition from our clients, emerging payment providers, and other digital and technology companies that have developed payments systems enabled through online activity in ecommerce and mobile channels. 22 table of contents our competitors may develop substantially better technology, have more widely adopted delivery channels or have greater financial resources. they may offer more effective, innovative or a wider range of programs, products, and services. they may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies that result in broader brand recognition, and greater issuance and merchant acceptance. they may also develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements. moreover, even if we successfully adapt to technological change and the proliferation of alternative types of payment services by developing and offering our own services in these areas, such services may provide less favorable financial terms for us than we currently receive from visanet transactions, which could hurt our financial results and prospects. certain of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures, or participate in different market segments. those business models may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to regulatory, technological, and other developments. in some cases, these competitors have the support of government mandates that prohibit, limit, or otherwise hinder our ability to compete for transactions within certain countries and regions. some of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks, virtual currency providers, technology companies that enable the exchange of digital assets, and certain alternate payments systems like alipay and wechat pay, operate closed-loop payments systems, with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. government actions or initiatives such as the dodd-frank act or the u.s. federal reserve's faster payments initiatives may provide them with increased opportunities to derive competitive advantages from these business models. similarly, regulation in europe under psd2 and the ifr may require us to open up access to, and allow participation in, our network to additional participants, and reduce the infrastructure investment and regulatory burden on potential competitors. we also run the risk of disintermediation due to factors such as emerging technologies, including mobile payments, alternate payment credentials, other ledger technologies or payment forms, and by virtue of increasing bilateral agreements between entities that prefer not to use our payments network for processing transactions. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly with issuers and acquirers. we expect the competitive landscape to continue to shift and evolve. for example: competitors, clients and others are developing alternate payment networks or products, such as mobile payment services, ecommerce payment services, p2p payment services, faster payment initiatives and payment services that permit ach or direct debits from consumer checking accounts, that could reduce our role or otherwise disintermediate us from the transaction processing or the value-added services we provide to support such processing. examples include initiatives from the clearing house, an association comprised of large financial institutions that is developing its own faster payments system, and early warning services, which operates zelle, a bank-offered alternative network that provides another platform for faster funds or real-time payments across a variety of payment types, including p2p, corporate and government disbursement, bill pay and deposit check transactions; similarly, multiple countries are developing or promoting real-time payment systems or mandating local networks with clients that also present a risk of disintermediation to our business and some regions, such as southeast asia, under the auspices of the association of southeast asian nations (asean), are looking into cross-border connectivity of such systems; parties that process our transactions may try to minimize or eliminate our position in the payments value chain; parties that access our payment credentials, tokens and technologies, including clients, technology solution providers or others might be able to migrate account holders and other clients to alternate payment methods or use our payment credentials, tokens and technologies to establish or help bolster alternate payment methods and platforms; participants in the payments industry may merge, form joint ventures or enable or enter into other business combinations that strengthen their existing business propositions or create new, competing payment services; and new or revised industry standards related to the emv secure remote commerce, cloud-based payments, tokenization or other payments-related technologies set by organizations such as the international organization for standardization, american national standards institute, world wide web consortium, european card standards group and emvco may result in additional costs and expenses for visa and its clients, or otherwise negatively impact the functionality and competitiveness of our products and services. 23 table of contents as the competitive landscape is quickly evolving, we may not be able to foresee or respond sufficiently to emerging risks associated with new businesses, products, services and practices. we may be asked to adjust our local rules and practices, develop or customize certain aspects of our payment services, or agree to business arrangements that may be less protective of visa's proprietary technology and interests in order to compete and we may face increasing operational costs and risk of litigation concerning intellectual property. our failure to compete effectively in light of any such developments could harm our business and prospects for future growth. our revenues and profits are dependent on our client and merchant base, which may be costly to win, retain, and maintain . our financial institution clients and merchants can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. while we have certain contractual protections, our clients, including some of our largest clients, generally have flexibility to issue non-visa products. further, in certain circumstances, our financial institution clients may decide to terminate our contractual relationship on relatively short notice without paying significant early termination fees. because a significant portion of our operating revenues is concentrated among our largest clients, the loss of business from any one of these larger clients could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, we face intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our financial institution clients. in order to stay competitive, we may need to adjust our pricing or offer incentives to our clients to increase payments volume, enter new market segments, adapt to regulatory changes, and expand their use and acceptance of visa products and services. these include up-front cash payments, fee discounts, rebates, credits, performance-based incentives, marketing, and other support payments that impact our revenues and profitability. in addition, we offer incentives to certain merchants or acquirers to win routing preference in situations where other network functionality is enabled on our products and there is a choice of network routing options. market pressures on pricing, incentives, fee discounts, and rebates could moderate our growth. if we are not able to implement cost containment and productivity initiatives in other areas of our business or increase our volumes in other ways to offset or absorb the financial impact of these incentives, fee discounts, and rebates, it may harm our net revenues and profits. in addition, it may be difficult or costly for us to acquire or conduct business with financial institutions or merchants that have longstanding exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors. these financial institutions or merchants may be more successful and may grow more quickly than our existing clients or merchants. in addition, if there is a consolidation or acquisition of one or more of our largest clients or co-brand partners by a financial institution client or merchant with a strong relationship with one of our competitors, it could result in our business shifting to a competitor, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our business. merchants' and processors' continued push to lower acceptance costs and challenge industry practices could harm our business . we rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our clients to maintain and expand the acceptance of visa products. certain large retail merchants have been exercising their influence in the global payments system in certain jurisdictions, such as the united states, canada and europe, to attempt to lower their acceptance costs by lobbying for new legislation, seeking regulatory enforcement, filing lawsuits and in some cases, refusing to accept visa products. if they are successful in their efforts, we may face increased compliance and litigation expenses and issuers may decrease their issuance of our products. for example, in the united states, certain stakeholders have raised concerns regarding how payment security standards and rules may impact the cost of payment card acceptance. in addition to ongoing litigation related to the u.s. migration to emv-capable cards and point-of-sale terminals, u.s. merchant-affiliated groups and processors have expressed concerns regarding the emv certification process and some policymakers have concerns about the roles of industry bodies such as emvco and the payment card industry security standards council in the development of payment card standards. additionally, some merchants and processors have advocated for changes to industry practices and visa acceptance requirements at the point of sale, including the ability for merchants to accept only certain types of visa products, to mandate only pin authenticated transactions, to differentiate or steer among visa product types issued by different financial institutions, and to impose surcharges on customers presenting visa products as their form of payment. if successful, these efforts could adversely impact consumers' usage of our products, lead to regulatory enforcement and/or litigation, increase our compliance and litigation expenses, and harm our business. 24 table of contents we depend on relationships with financial institutions, acquirers, processors, merchants, and other third parties . as noted above, our relationships with industry participants are complex and require us to balance the interests of multiple third parties. for instance, we depend significantly on relationships with our financial institution clients and on their relationships with account holders and merchants to support our programs and services, and thereby compete effectively in the marketplace. we engage in discussions with merchants, acquirers, and processors to provide incentives to promote routing preference and acceptance growth. we also engage in many payment card co-branding efforts with merchants, who receive incentives from us. as these and other relationships become more prevalent and take on a greater importance to our business, our success will increasingly depend on our ability to sustain and grow these relationships. in addition, we depend on our clients and third parties, including vendors and suppliers, to process transactions properly, provide various services associated with our payments network on our behalf, and otherwise adhere to our operating rules. to the extent that such parties fail to perform or deliver adequate services, it may result in negative experiences for account holders or others when using their visa-branded payment products, which could harm our business and reputation. our business could be harmed if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, if events occur that have the potential to damage our brand or reputation, or if we experience brand disintermediation . our brand is globally recognized and is a key asset of our business. we believe that our clients and account holders associate our brand with acceptance, security, convenience, speed, and reliability. our success depends in large part on our ability to maintain the value of our brand and reputation of our products and services in the payments ecosystem, elevate the brand through new and existing products, services and partnerships, and uphold our corporate reputation. the popularity of products that we have developed in partnership with technology companies and financial institutions may have the potential to cause consumer confusion or brand disintermediation at the point-of-sale and decrease the value of our brand. our brand reputation may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including clearing and settlement service disruptions; data security breaches; compliance failures by visa, including our employees, agents, clients, partners or suppliers; negative perception of our industry, the industries of our clients or visa-accepting merchants; ill-perceived actions by clients or other third parties, such as sponsorship or co-brand partners; and fraudulent, risky, controversial or illegal activities using our payment products. if we are unable to maintain our reputation, the value of our brand may be impaired, which could harm our relationships with clients, account holders, and the public, as well as impact our business. global economic, political, market, and social events or conditions may harm our business . our revenues are dependent on the volume and number of payment transactions made by consumers, governments, and businesses whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. in addition, more than half of our operating revenues are earned outside the united states. international cross-border transaction revenues represent a significant part of our revenue and are an important part of our growth strategy. therefore, adverse macroeconomic conditions, including recessions, inflation, high unemployment, currency fluctuations, actual or anticipated large-scale defaults or failures, or slowdown of global trade could decrease consumer and corporate confidence and reduce consumer, government, and corporate spending which have a direct impact on our revenues. in addition, outbreaks of illnesses, pandemics, or other local or global health issues, political uncertainties, international hostilities, armed conflict, or unrest, and natural disasters could impact our operations, our clients, our activities in a particular location, and cross-border travel and spend. geopolitical trends towards nationalism, protectionism, and restrictive visa requirements, as well as continued activity and uncertainty around economic sanctions could limit the expansion of our business in those regions. the current trade environment reduces the likelihood of having our bank card clearing institution application in china approved. in addition, any decline in cross-border travel and spend could impact the number of cross-border transactions we process and our currency exchange activities, which in turn would reduce our international transaction revenues. a decline in economic conditions could impact our clients as well, and their decisions could reduce the number of cards, accounts, and credit lines of their account holders, which ultimately impact our revenues. they may also implement cost-reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate marketing budgets, and decrease spending on optional or enhanced, value-added services from us. 25 table of contents any events or conditions that impair the functioning of the financial markets, tighten the credit market, or lead to a downgrade of our current credit rating could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access the capital and credit markets on favorable terms, which could affect our liquidity and capital resources, or significantly increase our cost of capital. if clients default on their settlement obligations, it may also impact our liquidity. any of these events could adversely affect the growth of our volumes and revenue. our indemnification obligation to fund settlement losses of our clients exposes us to significant risk of loss and may reduce our liquidity . we indemnify issuers and acquirers for settlement losses they may suffer due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to honor its settlement obligations in accordance with the visa operating rules. in certain instances, we may indemnify issuers or acquirers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. this indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the timing difference between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. our indemnification exposure is generally limited to the amount of unsettled visa payment transactions at any point in time and any subsequent amounts that may fall due relating to adjustments for previously processed transactions. concurrent settlement failures involving more than one of our largest clients, several of our smaller clients, or systemic operational failures could negatively impact our financial position. even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may be unable to recover the amount of such payment. this could expose us to significant losses and harm our business. see note 8 settlement guarantee management to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union could harm our business and financial results . in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ). in march 2017, the uk government initiated the exit process under article 50 of the treaty of the european union, commencing a period of up to two years for the united kingdom and the other eu member states to negotiate the terms of the withdrawal. uncertainty over the terms of the united kingdom's departure from the european union could cause political and economic uncertainty in the united kingdom and the rest of europe, which could harm our business and financial results. brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations in the united kingdom and european union. we, as well as our clients who have significant operations in the united kingdom, may incur additional costs and expenses as we adapt to potentially divergent regulatory frameworks from the rest of the european union and as a result, our visa operating rules and contractual commitments in the united kingdom and the rest of the european union may be impacted. in addition, we may need to apply for regulatory authorization and permission in separate eu member states following brexit. these factors may impact our ability to operate and process data in the european union and united kingdom seamlessly. this and other brexit-related issues may require changes to our legal entity structure in the united kingdom and the european union. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could harm our business and financial results. technology and cybersecurity risks failure to anticipate, adapt to or keep pace with new technologies in the payments industry could harm our business and impact future growth . the global payments industry is undergoing significant and rapid technological change, including mobile and other proximity payment technologies, ecommerce, tokenization, cryptocurrencies, and new authentication technologies such as biometrics, distributed ledger and blockchain technologies. as a result, we expect new services and technologies to continue to emerge and evolve. in addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we work closely with third parties, including potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. it is difficult, however, to predict which technological developments or innovations will become widely adopted and how those technologies may be regulated. moreover, some of the new technologies could be subject to intellectual property-related lawsuits or claims, potentially impacting our development efforts and/or requiring us to obtain licenses. if we or our partners fail to adapt and keep pace with new technologies in the payments space in a timely manner, it could harm our ability to compete, decrease the value of our products and services to our clients, impact our intellectual property or licensing rights, harm our business and impact our future growth. 26 table of contents a disruption, failure or breach of our networks or systems, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could harm our business . our cybersecurity and processing systems, as well as those of financial institutions, merchants, and third-party service providers, may experience errors, interruptions, delays or damage from a number of causes, including power outages, hardware, software and network failures, computer viruses, malware or other destructive software, internal design, manual or usage errors, cyber-attacks, terrorism, workplace violence or wrongdoing, catastrophic events, natural disasters and severe weather conditions. for instance, on june 1, 2018, our european authorization systems suffered a partial service disruption that prevented many cardholders from using visa's european systems for payments for several hours that day. although that service disruption was caused by a switch malfunction, rather than a cyber-attack, and was limited to the european authorization system, which has since been decommissioned with the processing migration to our global platform, the fact remains that our systems are highly technical and complex and are not immune from errors and vulnerabilities. furthermore, our visibility and role in the global payments industry may also put our company at a greater risk of being targeted by hackers. in the normal course of our business, we have been the target of malicious cyber-attack attempts. we may also be impacted by attacks and data security breaches of financial institutions, merchants, or third-party processors. we are aware of instances where nation states have sponsored attacks against some of our financial institution clients, and other instances where merchants have encountered substantial data security breaches affecting their customers, some of whom were visa account holders. although these attacks and breaches have not had a direct, material impact on us, we believe these incidents are likely to continue and we are unable to predict the direct or indirect impact of future attacks or breaches to our business. numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced and persistent cyber-attacks, phishing and social engineering schemes, particularly on our internet applications, could compromise the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of data in our systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to disable or degrade systems change frequently, have become increasingly more complex and sophisticated, and may be difficult to detect for periods of time, we may not anticipate these acts or respond adequately or timely. the security measures and procedures we, our financial institution and merchant clients, other merchants and third-party service providers in the payments ecosystem have in place to protect sensitive consumer data and other information may not be successful or sufficient to counter all data security breaches, cyber-attacks, or system failures. in some cases, the mitigation efforts may be dependent on third parties who may not deliver to the required contractual standards or whose hardware, software or network services may be subject to error, defect, delay, or outage. although we devote significant resources to our cybersecurity and supplier risk management programs and have implemented security measures to protect our systems and data, and to prevent, detect and respond to data security incidents, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent these threats. these events could significantly disrupt our operations; impact our clients and consumers; damage our reputation and brand; result in litigation, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, and regulatory scrutiny, investigations, actions, fines or penalties; result in damages or changes to our business practices; decrease the overall use and acceptance of our products; decrease our volume, revenues and future growth prospects; and be costly, time consuming and difficult to remedy. in the event of damage or disruption to our business due to these occurrences, we may not be able to successfully and quickly recover all of our critical business functions, assets, and data through our business continuity program. furthermore, while we maintain insurance, our coverage may not sufficiently cover all types of losses or claims that may arise. structural and organizational risks we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or strategic investments, and may face risks and uncertainties as a result . as part of our overall business strategy, we may make acquisitions and strategic investments. we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our current and future acquisitions and strategic investments and they may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: disruption to our ongoing business, including diversion of resources and management's attention from our existing business greater than expected investment of resources or operating expenses failure to develop the acquired business adequately difficulty, expense or failure of implementing controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company 27 table of contents challenges of integrating new employees, business cultures, business systems, and technologies failure to retain employees, clients, or partners of the acquired business in the case of foreign acquisitions, risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with operating in new regions or countries. for more information on regulatory risks, please see item 1 business government regulations and item 1a risk factors regulatory risks above discovery of unidentified issues after the acquisition or investment was made failure to mitigate the liabilities of the acquired business dilutive issuance of equity securities, if new securities are issued the incurrence of debt negative impact on our financial position and/or statement of operations anticipated benefits, synergies, or value of the investment or acquisition not materializing we may be unable to attract, hire, and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce, including key management . the talents and efforts of our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success. our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. we may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms that are competitive with the rest of the labor market. ongoing changes in laws and policies regarding immigration and work authorizations have made it more difficult for employees to work in, or transfer among, jurisdictions in which we have operations and could continue to impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. failure to attract, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly qualified and diverse employee talent, to develop and implement an adequate succession plan for the management team, or to maintain a corporate culture that fosters integrity, innovation, and collaboration could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and our future success. the conversions of our class b and class c common stock or series b and series c preferred stock into shares of class a common stock would result in voting dilution to, and could impact the market price of, our existing class a common stock . the market price of our class a common stock could fall as a result of many factors. under our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan, upon final resolution of our u.s. covered litigation, all class b common stock will become convertible into class a common stock. our series b and series c preferred stock will become convertible into class a common stock in stages based on developments in current and potential litigation and will become fully convertible no later than 2028 (subject to a holdback to cover any pending claims). conversion of our class b and class c common stock into class a common stock, or our series b and series c preferred stock into class a common stock, would increase the amount of class a common stock outstanding, which could adversely affect the market price of our existing class a common stock and would dilute the voting power of existing class a common stockholders. holders of our class b and c common stock and series b and series c preferred stock may have different interests than our class a common stockholders concerning certain significant transactions . although their voting rights are limited, holders of our class b and c common stock and, in certain specified circumstances, holders of our series b and series c preferred stock, can vote on certain significant transactions. with respect to our class b and c common stock, these transactions include a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business and any other vote required under delaware law. with respect to our series b and series c preferred stock, voting rights are limited to proposed consolidations or mergers in which holders of the series b and series c preferred stock would either (i) receive shares of stock or other equity securities with preferences, rights and privileges that are not substantially identical to the preferences, rights and privileges of the applicable series of preferred stock or (ii) receive securities, cash or other property that is different from what our class a common stockholders would receive. because the holders of classes of capital stock other than class a common stock are our current and former financial institution clients, they may have interests that diverge from our class a common stockholders. as a result, the holders of these classes of capital stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class a common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with interests of our class a common stockholders. 28 table of contents delaware law, provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our capital structure could make a merger, takeover attempt, or change in control difficult . provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and our capital structure could delay or prevent a merger, takeover attempt, or change in control that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, except for limited exceptions: no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class a common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance no competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may hold more than 5% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis the affirmative votes of the class b and c common stock and series b and series c preferred stock are required for certain types of consolidations or mergers our stockholders may only take action during a stockholders' meeting and may not act by written consent only the board of directors, chairman, or ceo may call a special meeting of stockholders quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss arising from adverse changes in market factors. our exposure to financial market risks results primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. aggregate risk exposures are monitored on an ongoing basis. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that are primarily related to changes in the functional currency value of revenues generated from foreign currency-denominated transactions and changes in the functional currency value of payments in foreign currencies. we manage these risks by entering into foreign currency forward contracts that hedge exposures of the variability in the functional currency equivalent of anticipated non-functional currency denominated cash flows. our foreign currency exchange rate risk management program reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. the aggregate notional amounts of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding in our exchange rate risk management program, including contracts not designated for cash flow hedge accounting, were $3.7 billion and $3.1 billion at september 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. the aggregate notional amount outstanding at september 30, 2018 is fully consistent with our strategy and treasury policy aimed at reducing foreign exchange risk below a predetermined and approved threshold. however, actual results could materially differ from our forecast. the effect of a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the value of the functional currencies is estimated to create an additional fair value gain of approximately $280 million or loss of approximately $350 million , respectively, on our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at september 30, 2018 . see note 1 summary of significant accounting policies and note 9 derivative and non-derivative financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. on june 21, 2016, we acquired 100% of the share capital of visa europe. on the third anniversary of the closing of the visa europe transaction, we will pay an additional purchase consideration of 1.0 billion , plus 4.0% compounded annual interest. as such, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to fluctuations of the u.s. dollar against the euro. a hypothetical 10% decline in the u.s. dollar against the euro, compared to the exchange rate at september 30, 2018 , would increase the deferred purchase consideration liability by $130 million , including interest. 51 table of contents we are further exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk as the functional currency of visa europe is the euro. translation from the euro to the u.s. dollar is performed for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for revenue and expense accounts using an average exchange rate for the period. resulting translation adjustments are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss on the consolidated balance sheets. a hypothetical 10% change in the euro against the u.s. dollar compared to the exchange rate at september 30, 2018 , would result in a foreign currency translation adjustment of $2.0 billion . we designate a portion of our euro-denominated deferred consideration liability as a net investment hedge against a portion of the foreign exchange rate exposure of our net investment of $18.8 billion in visa europe as of september 30, 2018 . changes in the value of the deferred cash consideration liability, attributable to a change in exchange rates at the end of each reporting period, partially offset the foreign currency translation of the company's net investment recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income in the company's consolidated balance sheets. see note 1 summary of significant accounting policies and note 9 derivative and non-derivative financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. we are also subject to foreign currency exchange risk in daily settlement activities. this risk arises from the timing of rate setting for settlement with clients relative to the timing of market trades for balancing currency positions. risk in settlement activities is limited through daily operating procedures, including the utilization of visa settlement systems and our interaction with foreign exchange trading counterparties. interest rate risk our investment portfolio assets are held in both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate securities. these assets are included in cash equivalents and short-term or long-term available-for-sale investments. investments in fixed-rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. the fair value of fixed-rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. additionally, a falling-rate environment creates reinvestment risk because as securities mature, the proceeds are reinvested at a lower rate, generating less interest income. historically, we have been able to hold investments until maturity. neither our operating results or cash flows have been, nor are they expected to be, materially impacted by a sudden change in market interest rates. the fair value balances of our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2018 and 2017 were $5.1 billion and $6.4 billion , respectively. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would create an estimated change in fair value of approximately $31 million on our investment securities at september 30, 2018 . the fair value balances of our adjustable-rate debt securities were $3.5 billion and $1.8 billion at september 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. pension plan risk at september 30, 2018 and 2017 , our u.s. defined benefit pension plan assets were $1.1 billion at each year end, and projected benefit obligations were $0.8 billion and $0.9 billion , respectively. a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or in the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of pension plan assets and a 1% decrease in the discount rate would result in an aggregate decrease of approximately $206 million in the funded status and an increase of approximately $35 million in pension cost. at september 30, 2018 and 2017 , our non-u.s. defined benefit pension plan assets were $0.4 billion at each year end, and projected benefit obligations were $0.5 billion and $0.4 billion , respectively. a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or in the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of pension plan assets and a 1% decrease in the discount rate would result in an aggregate decrease of approximately $148 million in the funded status and an increase of approximately $13 million in pension cost. we will continue to monitor the performance of pension plan assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of our contribution to the pension plan for fiscal 2019 , if any, which would be made in september 2019. 52 table of contentsrisk factors regulatory risks we are subject to complex and evolving global regulations that could harm our business and financial results . as a global payments technology company, we are subject to complex and evolving regulations that govern our operations. see item 1 business government regulation for more information on the most significant areas of regulation that affect our business. the impact of these regulations on us, our clients, and other third parties could limit our ability to enforce our payments system rules; require us to adopt new rules or change existing rules; affect our existing contractual arrangements; increase our compliance costs; require us to make our technology or intellectual property available to third parties, including competitors, in an undesirable manner; and reduce our revenue opportunities. as discussed in more detail below, we may face differing rules and regulations in matters like interchange reimbursement rates, preferred routing, domestic processing requirements, currency conversion, point-of-sale transaction rules and practices, privacy, data use or protection, licensing requirements, and associated product technology. as a result, the visa operating rules and our other contractual commitments may differ from country to country or by product offering. complying with these and other regulations increases our costs and could reduce our revenue opportunities. if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty rapidly adjusting our product offerings, services, fees and other important aspects of our business in the regions where we operate. our compliance programs and policies are designed to support our compliance with a wide array of regulations and laws, such as anti-money laundering, anti-corruption, competition, privacy and sanctions, and we continually enhance our compliance programs as regulations evolve. however, we cannot guarantee that our practices will be deemed compliant by all applicable regulatory authorities. in the event our controls should fail or we are found to be out of compliance for other reasons, we could be subject to monetary damages, civil and criminal penalties, litigation, investigations and proceedings, and damage to our global brands and reputation. furthermore, the evolving and increased regulatory focus on the payments industry could negatively impact or reduce the number of visa products our clients issue, the volume of payments we process, our revenues, our brands, our competitive positioning, our ability to use our intellectual property to differentiate our products and services, the quality and types of products and services we offer, the countries in which our products are used, and the types of consumers and merchants who can obtain or accept our products, all of which could harm our business. increased scrutiny and regulation of the global payments industry, including with respect to interchange reimbursement fees, merchant discount rates, operating rules, risk management protocols and other related practices, could harm our business . regulators around the world have been establishing or increasing their authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments industry. see item 1. business government regulation for more information . in the u.s. and many other jurisdictions, we have historically set default interchange reimbursement fees. even though we generally do not receive any revenue related to interchange reimbursement fees in a payment transaction (in the context of credit and debit transactions, those fees are paid by the acquirers to the issuers; the reverse is true for certain transactions like atm), interchange reimbursement fees are a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. consequently, changes to these fees, whether voluntarily or by mandate, can substantially affect our overall payments volumes and revenues. 19 table of contents interchange reimbursement fees, certain operating rules and related practices continue to be subject to increased government regulation globally, and regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions have reviewed or are reviewing these fees, rules, and practices. for example, regulations adopted by the u.s. federal reserve cap the maximum u.s. debit interchange reimbursement rate received by large financial institutions at 21 cents plus 5 basis points per transaction, plus a possible fraud adjustment of 1 cent. the dodd-frank act also limits issuers' and our ability to adopt network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit and prepaid area, which also impacts our business. the eu's ifr places an effective cap on consumer credit and consumer debit interchange fees for both domestic and cross-border transactions within the eea (30 basis points and 20 basis points, respectively). eu member states have the ability to further reduce these interchange levels within their territories. furthermore, the european commission is in the process of conducting an impact assessment of the ifr, which could potentially result in lower and/or additional interchange fee caps and restrictions. countries in other parts of the world, including the latin america region have either adopted or are exploring interchange caps. for example, in march 2017, argentina's central bank passed regulations that cap interchange fees on credit and debit transactions. in march 2018, brazil adopted interchange caps on debit transactions. when we cannot set default interchange reimbursement rates at optimal levels, issuers and acquirers may find our payments system less attractive. this may increase the attractiveness of other payments systems, such as our competitors' closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. we believe some issuers may react to such regulations by charging new or higher fees, or reducing certain benefits to consumers, which make our products less appealing to consumers. some acquirers may elect to charge higher merchant discount rates regardless of the visa interchange reimbursement rate, causing merchants not to accept our products or to steer customers to alternate payments systems or forms of payment. in addition, in an effort to reduce the expense of their payment programs, some issuers and acquirers have obtained, and may continue to obtain, incentives from us, including reductions in the fees that we charge, which may directly impact our revenues. in addition to the regulation of interchange reimbursement fees, a number of regulators impose restrictions on other aspects of our payments business. for example, many governments including, but not limited to governments in india and turkey are using regulation to further drive down merchant discount rates, which could negatively affect the economics of our transactions. some countries in latin america, like peru and chile are relying on antitrust driven regulatory actions that can have implications for how the payments ecosystem and four party model operate. the payment system regulator's review of the acquiring market in the united kingdom could lead to additional regulatory pressure on our business. with increased merchant lobbying, we could also begin to see regulatory interest in network fees. government regulations or pressure may also require us to allow other payments networks to support visa products or services, or to have the other network's functionality or brand marks on our products. as innovations in payment technology have enabled us to expand into new products and services, they have also expanded the potential scope of regulatory influence. for instance, new products and capabilities, including tokenization, push payments, and non-card based payment flows (e.g., b2b connect) could bring increased licensing or authorization requirements in the countries where the product or capability is offered. in addition, the european union's requirement to separate scheme and processing adds costs and impacts the execution of our commercial, innovation and product strategies. we are also subject to central bank oversight in some markets, including, brazil, russia, the united kingdom and within the european union. this oversight could result in new governance, reporting, licensing, cybersecurity, processing infrastructure, capital, or credit risk management requirements. we could also be required to adopt policies and practices designed to mitigate settlement and liquidity risks, including increased requirements to maintain sufficient levels of capital and financial resources locally, as well as localized risk management or governance. increased central bank oversight could also lead to new or different criteria for participation in and access to our payments system, including allowing non-traditional financial technology companies to act as issuers or acquirers. additionally, regulators in other jurisdictions are considering or adopting approaches based on similar regulatory principles. finally, regulators around the world increasingly take note of each other's approaches to regulating the payments industry. consequently, a development in one jurisdiction may influence regulatory approaches in another. the risks created by a new law, regulation or regulatory outcome in one jurisdiction have the potential to be replicated and to negatively affect our business in another jurisdiction or in other product offerings. for example, our settlement with the european commission on cross-border interchange rates could draw the attention of regulators in other parts of the world. similarly, new regulations involving one product offering may prompt regulators to extend the regulations to other product offerings. for example, credit payments could become subject to similar regulation as debit payments (or vice versa). for instance, the reserve bank of australia initially capped credit interchange, but subsequently capped debit interchange as well. 20 table of contents government-imposed restrictions on international payment systems may prevent us from competing against providers in certain countries, including significant markets such as china, india and russia . governments in a number of jurisdictions shield domestic payment card networks, brands, and processors from international competition by imposing market access barriers and preferential domestic regulations. to varying degrees, these policies and regulations affect the terms of competition in the marketplace and undermine the competitiveness of international payments networks. in the future, public authorities may impose regulatory requirements that favor domestic providers or mandate that domestic payments processing be performed entirely within that country, which would prevent us from managing the end-to-end processing of certain transactions. in russia, legislation effectively prevents us from processing domestic transactions. the central bank controlled national payment card system (nspk) is the only entity allowed to process domestically. in china, unionpay remains the sole processor of domestic payment card transactions and operates the sole domestic acceptance mark. although we have filed an application with the people's bank of china (pboc) to operate a bank card clearing institution (bcci) in china, the timing and the procedural steps remain uncertain. the approval process might require several years, and there is no guarantee that the license to operate a bcci will be approved or, if we obtain such license, that we will be able to successfully compete with domestic payments networks. recent regulatory initiatives in india also suggest growing nationalistic priorities, including a data localization mandate passed by the government, which has cost implications for us and could affect our ability to effectively compete with domestic payment providers. furthermore, regional groups of countries, such as the gulf cooperation countries in the middle east and a number of countries in southeast asia, are considering, or may consider, efforts to restrict our participation in the processing of regional transactions. the african development bank has also indicated an interest in supporting national payment systems in its efforts to expand financial inclusion and strengthen regional financial stability. geopolitical events, including sanctions, trade tensions or other types of activities could potentially intensify any or all of these activities, which could adversely affect our business. due to our inability to manage the end-to-end processing of transactions for cards in certain countries (e.g., russia and thailand), we depend on our close working relationships with our clients or third-party processors to ensure transactions involving our products are processed effectively. our ability to do so may be adversely affected by regulatory requirements and policies pertaining to transaction routing or on-shore processing. co-badging and co-residency regulations may pose additional challenges in markets where visa competes with national networks for issuance and routing. for example, in china, certain banks have issued dual-branded cards for which domestic transactions in china are processed by unionpay and transactions outside of china are processed by us or other international payments networks. the pboc is contemplating that dual-branded cards could be phased out over time as new licenses are issued to international companies to participate in china's domestic payments market. accordingly, we have been working with chinese issuers to issue visa-only branded cards for international travel, and later for domestic transactions after we obtain a bcci license. however, notwithstanding such efforts, the phase out of dual-branded cards may decrease our payment volumes and impact the revenue we generate in china. mir and unionpay have grown rapidly in russia and china, respectively, and are actively pursuing international expansion plans, which could potentially lead to regulatory pressures on our international routing rule (which requires that international transactions on visa cards be routed over visanet). furthermore, although regulatory barriers shield mir and unionpay from competition in russia and china, respectively, alternate payment providers such as alipay and wechat pay have rapidly expanded into ecommerce, offline, and cross-border payments, which could make it difficult for us to compete even if our license is approved in china. recently, with strong backing from china's government, a new digital transaction routing system known as netlink was established. the pboc allowed alipay and other digital payment providers to invest in netlink. it and other such systems could have a competitive advantage in comparison with other international payments networks . in general, national laws that protect domestic providers or processing may increase our costs; decrease our payments volumes and impact the revenue we generate in those countries; decrease the number of visa products issued or processed; impede us from utilizing our global processing capabilities and controlling the quality of the services supporting our brands; restrict our activities; limit our growth and the ability to introduce new products, services and innovations; force us to leave countries or prevent us from entering new markets; and create new competitors, all of which could harm our business. 21 table of contents laws and regulations regarding the handling of personal data and information may impede our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against us . our business relies on the processing of data in many jurisdictions and the movement of data across national borders. legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data continue to evolve, and regulatory scrutiny in this area is increasing around the world. significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. for example, the eu's general data protection regulation (gdpr) extends the scope of the eu data protection law to all companies processing data of eu residents, regardless of the company's location. the law requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. although we have an extensive data privacy program that addresses the gdpr requirements, our ongoing efforts to comply with gdpr and other privacy and data protection laws (such as the new california consumer privacy act effective as of january 2020 and the brazilian general data protection law effective as of february 2020) may entail substantial expenses, may divert resources from other initiatives and projects, and could limit the services we are able to offer. in addition, india has adopted a data localization law that requires all payment system operators to store domestic transaction data only in india. such data localization requirements have cost implications for us, impact our ability to utilize the efficiencies and value of our global network, and could affect our strategy. furthermore, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. the enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, regulations, or future enforcement actions or investigations could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. we may be subject to tax examinations or disputes, or changes in tax laws . we exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may limit their accuracy. we are currently under examination by, or in disputes with, the u.s. internal revenue service, the uk's hm revenue &amp; customs as well as tax authorities in other jurisdictions, and we may be subject to additional examinations or disputes in the future. relevant tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. failure to sustain our position in these matters could harm our cash flow and financial position. in addition, changes in existing laws in the u.s. or foreign jurisdictions, or changes resulting from the organization for economic cooperation and development program of work, related to the revision of profit allocation and nexus rules and global base-erosion proposal, may also materially affect our effective tax rate. a substantial increase in our tax payments could have a material, adverse effect on our financial results. see also note 19 income taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. litigation risks we may be adversely affected by the outcome of litigation or investigations, despite certain protections that are in place . we are involved in numerous litigation matters, investigations, and proceedings asserted by civil litigants, governments, and enforcement bodies alleging, among other things, violations of competition and antitrust law, consumer protection law, and intellectual property law (these are referred to as actions in this section). details of the most significant actions we face are described more fully in note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. these actions are inherently uncertain, expensive, and disruptive to our operations. in the event we are found liable in any material action, particularly in a large class action lawsuit, such as one involving an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages, or we incur liability arising from a government investigation, we may be required to pay significant awards, settlements, or fines. in addition, settlement terms, judgments, or pressures resulting from actions may harm our business by requiring us to modify, among other things, the default interchange reimbursement rates we set, the visa operating rules or the way in which we enforce those rules, our fees or pricing, or the way we do business. these actions or their outcomes may also influence regulators, investigators, governments, or civil litigants in the same or other jurisdictions, which may lead to additional actions against visa. finally, we are required by some of our commercial agreements to indemnify other entities for litigation brought against them, even if visa is not a defendant. 22 table of contents for certain actions like those that are u.s. covered litigation or ve territory covered litigation, as described in note 5 u.s. and europe retrospective responsibility plans and note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report, we have certain financial protections pursuant to the respective retrospective responsibility plans. the two retrospective responsibility plans are different in the protections they provide and the mechanisms by which we are protected. the failure of one or both of the retrospective responsibility plans to adequately insulate us from the impact of such settlements, judgments, losses, or liabilities could materially harm our financial condition or cash flows, or even cause us to become insolvent. business risks we face intense competition in our industry . the global payments space is intensely competitive. as technology evolves, new competitors or methods of payment emerge, and existing clients and competitors assume different roles. our products compete with cash, checks, electronic funds, virtual currency payments, global or multi-regional networks, other domestic and closed-loop payments systems, and alternative payment providers primarily focused on enabling payments through ecommerce and mobile channels. as the global payments space becomes more complex, we face increasing competition from our clients, other emerging payment providers such as fintechs, and other digital payments and technology companies that have developed payments systems enabled through online activity in ecommerce and mobile channels. our competitors may develop substantially better technology, have more widely adopted delivery channels or have greater financial resources. they may offer more effective, innovative or a wider range of programs, products, and services. they may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies that result in broader brand recognition, and greater issuance and merchant acceptance. they may also develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements. moreover, even if we successfully adapt to technological change and the proliferation of alternative types of payment services by developing and offering our own services in these areas, such services may provide less favorable financial terms for us than we currently receive from visanet transactions, which could hurt our financial results and prospects. certain of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures, or participate in different market segments. those business models may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to regulatory, technological, and other developments. in some cases, these competitors have the support of government mandates that prohibit, limit, or otherwise hinder our ability to compete for transactions within certain countries and regions. some of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks, virtual currency providers, technology companies that enable the exchange of digital assets, and certain alternate payments systems like alipay and wechat pay, operate closed-loop payments systems, with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. government actions or initiatives such as the dodd-frank act or the u.s. federal reserve's fednow initiatives may provide competitors with increased opportunities to derive competitive advantages from these business models, and may create new competitors, including in some cases the government itself. similarly, regulation in europe under psd2 and the ifr may require us to open up access to, and allow participation in, our network to additional participants, and reduce the infrastructure investment and regulatory burden on competitors. we also run the risk of disintermediation due to factors such as emerging technologies, including mobile payments, alternate payment credentials, other ledger technologies or payment forms, and by virtue of increasing bilateral agreements between entities that prefer not to use our payments network for processing transactions. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly with issuers and acquirers. we expect the competitive landscape to continue to shift and evolve. for example: competitors, clients, network participants, and others are developing or participating in alternate payment networks or products, such as mobile payment services, ecommerce payment services, p2p payment services, real-time and faster payment initiatives and payment services that permit ach or direct debits from consumer checking accounts, that could reduce our role or otherwise disintermediate us from the transaction processing or the value-added services we provide to support such processing. examples include initiatives from the clearing house, an association consisting of large financial institutions that has developed its own faster payments system; early warning services, which operates zelle, a bank-offered alternative network that provides another platform for faster funds or real-time payments across a variety of payment types, including p2p, corporate and government disbursement, bill pay and deposit check transactions; and the libra association, which seeks to launch a new stablecoin crypto-currency (libra coin) and global blockchain-based payments network; 23 table of contents similarly, many countries are developing or promoting domestic networks, switches and real-time payment systems. to the extent these governments mandate local banks and merchants to use and accept these systems for domestic transactions and/or prohibit international payment networks, like visa, from participating on those systems, we could face the risk of our business being disintermediated in those countries. furthermore, in some regions, such as southeast asia, under the auspices of the association of southeast asian nations (asean), some countries are looking into cross-border connectivity of such domestic systems; parties that process our transactions may try to minimize or eliminate our position in the payments value chain; parties that access our payment credentials, tokens and technologies, including clients, technology solution providers or others might be able to migrate account holders and other clients to alternate payment methods or use our payment credentials, tokens and technologies to establish or help bolster alternate payment methods and platforms; participants in the payments industry may merge, form joint ventures or enable or enter into other business combinations that strengthen their existing business propositions or create new, competing payment services; and new or revised industry standards related to emv secure remote commerce, cloud-based payments, tokenization or other payments-related technologies set by organizations such as the international organization for standardization, american national standards institute, world wide web consortium, european card standards group, pci co and emvco may result in additional costs and expenses for visa and its clients, or otherwise negatively impact the functionality and competitiveness of our products and services. as the competitive landscape is quickly evolving, we may not be able to foresee or respond sufficiently to emerging risks associated with new businesses, products, services and practices. we may be asked to adjust our local rules and practices, develop or customize certain aspects of our payment services, or agree to business arrangements that may be less protective of visa's proprietary technology and interests in order to compete and we may face increasing operational costs and risk of litigation concerning intellectual property. our failure to compete effectively in light of any such developments could harm our business and prospects for future growth. our revenues and profits are dependent on our client and merchant base, which may be costly to win, retain, and maintain . our financial institution clients and merchants can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. while we have certain contractual protections, our clients, including some of our largest clients, generally have flexibility to issue non-visa products. further, in certain circumstances, our financial institution clients may decide to terminate our contractual relationship on relatively short notice without paying significant early termination fees. because a significant portion of our net revenues is concentrated among our largest clients, the loss of business from any one of these larger clients could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, we face intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our financial institution clients. in order to stay competitive, we may need to adjust our pricing or offer incentives to our clients to increase payments volume, enter new market segments, adapt to regulatory changes, and expand their use and acceptance of visa products and services. these include up-front cash payments, fee discounts, rebates, credits, performance-based incentives, marketing, and other support payments that impact our revenues and profitability. in addition, we offer incentives to certain merchants or acquirers to win routing preference in situations where other network functionality is enabled on our products and there is a choice of network routing options. market pressures on pricing, incentives, fee discounts, and rebates could moderate our growth. if we are not able to implement cost containment and productivity initiatives in other areas of our business or increase our volumes in other ways to offset or absorb the financial impact of these incentives, fee discounts, and rebates, it may harm our net revenues and profits. in addition, it may be difficult or costly for us to acquire or conduct business with financial institutions or merchants that have longstanding exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors. these financial institutions or merchants may be more successful and may grow more quickly than our existing clients or merchants. in addition, if there is a consolidation or acquisition of one or more of our largest clients or co-brand partners by a financial institution client or merchant with a strong relationship with one of our competitors, it could result in our business shifting to a competitor, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our business. 24 table of contents merchants' and processors' continued push to lower acceptance costs and challenge industry practices could harm our business . we rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our clients to maintain and expand the acceptance of visa products. certain large retail merchants have been exercising their influence in the global payments system in certain jurisdictions, such as the u.s., canada and europe, to attempt to lower their acceptance costs by lobbying for new legislation, seeking regulatory enforcement, filing lawsuits and in some cases, refusing to accept visa products. if they are successful in their efforts, we may face increased compliance and litigation expenses and issuers may decrease their issuance of our products. for example, in the u.s., certain stakeholders have raised concerns regarding how payment security standards and rules may impact the cost of payment card acceptance. in addition to ongoing litigation related to the u.s. migration to emv-capable cards and point-of-sale terminals, u.s. merchant-affiliated groups and processors have expressed concerns regarding the emv certification process and some policymakers have concerns about the roles of industry bodies such as emvco and the payment card industry security standards council in the development of payment card standards. additionally, some merchants and processors have advocated for changes to industry practices and visa acceptance requirements at the point of sale, including the ability for merchants to accept only certain types of visa products, to mandate only pin authenticated transactions, to differentiate or steer among visa product types issued by different financial institutions, and to impose surcharges on customers presenting visa products as their form of payment. if successful, these efforts could adversely impact consumers' usage of our products, lead to regulatory enforcement and/or litigation, increase our compliance and litigation expenses, and harm our business. we depend on relationships with financial institutions, acquirers, processors, merchants, and other third parties . as noted above, our relationships with industry participants are complex and require us to balance the interests of multiple third parties. for instance, we depend significantly on relationships with our financial institution clients and on their relationships with account holders and merchants to support our programs and services, and thereby compete effectively in the marketplace. we engage in discussions with merchants, acquirers, and processors to provide incentives to promote routing preference and acceptance growth. we also engage in many payment card co-branding efforts with merchants, who receive incentives from us. as emerging participants such as fintechs enter the payments industry, we engage in discussions to address the role they may play in the ecosystem, whether as, for example, an issuer, merchant, or digital wallet provider. as these and other relationships become more prevalent and take on a greater importance to our business, our success will increasingly depend on our ability to sustain and grow these relationships. in addition, we depend on our clients and third parties, including vendors and suppliers, to process transactions properly, provide various services associated with our payments network on our behalf, and otherwise adhere to our operating rules. to the extent that such parties fail to perform or deliver adequate services, it may result in negative experiences for account holders or others when using their visa-branded payment products, which could harm our business and reputation. our business could be harmed if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, if events occur that have the potential to damage our brand or reputation, or if we experience brand disintermediation . our brand is globally recognized and is a key asset of our business. we believe that our clients and account holders associate our brand with acceptance, security, convenience, speed, and reliability. our success depends in large part on our ability to maintain the value of our brand and reputation of our products and services in the payments ecosystem, elevate the brand through new and existing products, services and partnerships, and uphold our corporate reputation. the popularity of products that we have developed in partnership with technology companies and financial institutions may have the potential to cause consumer confusion or brand disintermediation at the point-of-sale and decrease the value of our brand. our brand reputation may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including authorization, clearing and settlement service disruptions; data security breaches; compliance failures by visa, including our employees, agents, clients, partners or suppliers; negative perception of our industry, the industries of our clients or visa-accepting merchants; ill-perceived actions by clients, partners or other third parties, such as sponsorship or co-brand partners; and fraudulent, risky, controversial or illegal activities using our payment products. if we are unable to maintain our reputation, the value of our brand may be impaired, which could harm our relationships with clients, account holders, and the public, as well as impact our business. 25 table of contents global economic, political, market, and social events or conditions may harm our business . our revenues are dependent on the volume and number of payment transactions made by consumers, governments, and businesses whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. in addition, more than half of our net revenues are earned outside the u.s. international cross-border transaction revenues represent a significant part of our revenue and are an important part of our growth strategy. therefore, adverse macroeconomic conditions, including recessions, inflation, high unemployment, currency fluctuations, actual or anticipated large-scale defaults or failures, or slowdown of global trade could decrease consumer and corporate confidence and reduce consumer, government, and corporate spending which have a direct impact on our revenues. in addition, outbreaks of illnesses, pandemics, or other local or global health issues, political uncertainties, international hostilities, armed conflict, or unrest, and natural disasters could impact our operations, our clients, our activities in a particular location, and cross-border travel and spend. geopolitical trends towards nationalism, protectionism, and restrictive visa requirements, as well as continued activity and uncertainty around economic sanctions could limit the expansion of our business in those regions. the current trade environment reduces the likelihood of having our bank card clearing institution application in china approved. in addition, any decline in cross-border travel and spend could impact the number of cross-border transactions we process and our currency exchange activities, which in turn would reduce our international transaction revenues. a decline in economic conditions could impact our clients as well, and their decisions could reduce the number of cards, accounts, and credit lines of their account holders, which ultimately impact our revenues. they may also implement cost-reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate marketing budgets, and decrease spending on optional or enhanced, value-added services from us. any events or conditions that impair the functioning of the financial markets, tighten the credit market, or lead to a downgrade of our current credit rating could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access the capital and credit markets on favorable terms, which could affect our liquidity and capital resources, or significantly increase our cost of capital. if clients default on their settlement obligations, it may also impact our liquidity. any of these events could adversely affect our volumes and revenue. our indemnification obligation to fund settlement losses of our clients exposes us to significant risk of loss and may reduce our liquidity . we indemnify issuers and acquirers for settlement losses they may suffer due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to honor its settlement obligations in accordance with the visa operating rules. in certain instances, we may indemnify issuers or acquirers in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. this indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the timing difference between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. our indemnification exposure is generally limited to the amount of unsettled visa payment transactions at any point in time and any subsequent amounts that may fall due relating to adjustments for previously processed transactions. concurrent settlement failures involving more than one of our largest clients, several of our smaller clients, or systemic operational failures could negatively impact our financial position. even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may be unable to recover the amount of such payment. this could expose us to significant losses and harm our business. see note 11 settlement guarantee management to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union could harm our business and financial results . in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ). in march 2017, the uk government initiated the exit process under article 50 of the treaty of the european union, commencing a period of up to two years for the united kingdom and the other eu member states to negotiate the terms of the withdrawal, which was subsequently postponed until january 31, 2020. uncertainty over the terms of the united kingdom's departure from the european union could cause political and economic uncertainty in the united kingdom and the rest of europe, which could harm our business and financial results. 26 table of contents brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations in the united kingdom and european union. we, as well as our clients who have significant operations in the united kingdom, may incur additional costs and expenses as we adapt to potentially divergent regulatory frameworks from the rest of the european union and as a result, our visa operating rules and contractual commitments in the united kingdom and the rest of the european union may be impacted. in addition, applications may need to be made for regulatory authorization and permission in separate eu member states following brexit. these factors may impact our ability to operate and process data in the european union and united kingdom seamlessly. this and other brexit-related issues may require changes to our legal entity structure and/or operations in the united kingdom and the european union. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could harm our business and financial results. technology and cybersecurity risks failure to anticipate, adapt to or keep pace with new technologies in the payments industry could harm our business and impact future growth . the global payments industry is undergoing significant and rapid technological change, including mobile and other proximity payment technologies, ecommerce, tokenization, cryptocurrencies, and new authentication technologies such as biometrics, distributed ledger and blockchain technologies. as a result, we expect new services and technologies to continue to emerge and evolve. in addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we work closely with third parties, including potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. it is difficult, however, to predict which technological developments or innovations will become widely adopted and how those technologies may be regulated. moreover, some of the new technologies could be subject to intellectual property-related lawsuits or claims, potentially impacting our development efforts and/or requiring us to obtain licenses. if we or our partners fail to adapt and keep pace with new technologies in the payments space in a timely manner, it could harm our ability to compete, decrease the value of our products and services to our clients, impact our intellectual property or licensing rights, harm our business and impact our future growth. a disruption, failure or breach of our networks or systems, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could harm our business . our cybersecurity and processing systems, as well as those of financial institutions, merchants, and third-party service providers, have experienced in limited instances and may continue to experience errors, interruptions, delays or damage from a number of causes, including power outages, hardware, software and network failures, computer viruses, malware or other destructive software, internal design, manual or usage errors, cyber-attacks, terrorism, workplace violence or wrongdoing, catastrophic events, natural disasters and severe weather conditions. furthermore, our visibility and role in the global payments industry may also put our company at a greater risk of being targeted by hackers. in the normal course of our business, we have been the target of malicious cyber-attack attempts. we have been and may continue to be impacted by attacks and data security breaches of financial institutions, merchants, or third-party processors. we are also aware of instances where nation states have sponsored attacks against some of our financial institution clients, and other instances where merchants and issuers have encountered substantial data security breaches affecting their customers, some of whom were visa account holders. such attacks and breaches have resulted, and may continue to result in, fraudulent activity and ultimately, financial losses to visa's clients, and it is difficult to predict the direct or indirect impact of future attacks or breaches to our business. numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced and persistent cyber-attacks, phishing and social engineering schemes, particularly on our internet applications, could compromise the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of data in our systems or the systems of our third-party service providers. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to disable or degrade systems change frequently, have become increasingly more complex and sophisticated, and may be difficult to detect for periods of time, we may not anticipate these acts or respond adequately or timely. the security measures and procedures we, our financial institution and merchant clients, other merchants and third-party service providers in the payments ecosystem have in place to protect sensitive consumer data and other information may not be successful or sufficient to counter all data security breaches, cyber-attacks, or system failures. in some cases, the mitigation efforts may be dependent on third parties who may not deliver to the required contractual standards or whose hardware, software or network services may be subject to error, defect, delay, or outage. although we devote significant resources to our cybersecurity and supplier risk management programs and have implemented security measures to protect our systems and data, and to prevent, detect and respond to data security incidents, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent these threats. 27 table of contents these events could significantly disrupt our operations; impact our clients and consumers; damage our reputation and brand; result in litigation or claims, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, and regulatory scrutiny, investigations, actions, fines or penalties; result in damages or changes to our business practices; decrease the overall use and acceptance of our products; decrease our volume, revenues and future growth prospects; and be costly, time consuming and difficult to remedy. in the event of damage or disruption to our business due to these occurrences, we may not be able to successfully and quickly recover all of our critical business functions, assets, and data through our business continuity program. furthermore, while we maintain insurance, our coverage may not sufficiently cover all types of losses or claims that may arise. structural and organizational risks we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or strategic investments, and may face risks and uncertainties as a result . as part of our overall business strategy, we make acquisitions and strategic investments. we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our current and future acquisitions and strategic investments and they may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: disruption to our ongoing business, including diversion of resources and management's attention from our existing business greater than expected investment of resources or operating expenses failure to develop the acquired business adequately the data security, cybersecurity and operational resilience posture of our acquired companies, or companies we invest in or partner with, may not be adequate difficulty, expense or failure of implementing controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company challenges of integrating new employees, business cultures, business systems and technologies failure to retain employees, clients or partners of the acquired business in the case of foreign acquisitions, risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages the economic, political and regulatory risks associated with operating in new businesses, regions or countries. for more information on regulatory risks, please see item 1 business government regulations and item 1a risk factors regulatory risks above discovery of unidentified issues and related liabilities after the acquisition or investment was made failure to mitigate the deficiencies and liabilities of the acquired business dilutive issuance of equity securities, if new securities are issued the incurrence of debt negative impact on our financial position and/or statement of operations anticipated benefits, synergies or value of the investment or acquisition not materializing we may be unable to attract, hire, and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce, including key management . the talents and efforts of our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success. our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. we may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms that are competitive with the rest of the labor market. ongoing changes in laws and policies regarding immigration and work authorizations have made it more difficult for employees to work in, or transfer among, jurisdictions in which we have operations and could continue to impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. failure to attract, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly qualified and diverse employee talent, to develop and implement an adequate succession plan for the management team, or to maintain a corporate culture that fosters integrity, innovation, and collaboration could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and our future success. 28 table of contents the conversions of our class b and class c common stock or series b and series c preferred stock into shares of class a common stock would result in voting dilution to, and could impact the market price of, our existing class a common stock . the market price of our class a common stock could fall as a result of many factors. under our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan, upon final resolution of our u.s. covered litigation, all class b common stock will become convertible into class a common stock. our series b and series c preferred stock will become convertible into class a common stock in stages based on developments in current and potential litigation and will become fully convertible no later than 2028 (subject to a holdback to cover any pending claims). conversion of our class b and class c common stock into class a common stock, or our series b and series c preferred stock into class a common stock, would increase the amount of class a common stock outstanding, which could adversely affect the market price of our existing class a common stock and would dilute the voting power of existing class a common stockholders. holders of our class b and c common stock and series b and series c preferred stock may have different interests than our class a common stockholders concerning certain significant transactions . although their voting rights are limited, holders of our class b and c common stock and, in certain specified circumstances, holders of our series b and series c preferred stock, can vote on certain significant transactions. with respect to our class b and c common stock, these transactions include a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business and any other vote required under delaware law. with respect to our series b and series c preferred stock, voting rights are limited to proposed consolidations or mergers in which holders of the series b and series c preferred stock would either (i) receive shares of stock or other equity securities with preferences, rights and privileges that are not substantially identical to the preferences, rights and privileges of the applicable series of preferred stock or (ii) receive securities, cash or other property that is different from what our class a common stockholders would receive. because the holders of classes of capital stock other than class a common stock are our current and former financial institution clients, they may have interests that diverge from our class a common stockholders. as a result, the holders of these classes of capital stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class a common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with interests of our class a common stockholders. delaware law, provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our capital structure could make a merger, takeover attempt, or change in control difficult . provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and our capital structure could delay or prevent a merger, takeover attempt, or change in control that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, except for limited exceptions: no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class a common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance no competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may hold more than 5% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis the affirmative votes of the class b and c common stock and series b and series c preferred stock are required for certain types of consolidations or mergers our stockholders may only take action during a stockholders' meeting and may not act by written consent only the board of directors, chairman, or ceo may call a special meeting of stockholders 29 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss arising from adverse changes in market factors. our exposure to financial market risks results primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. aggregate risk exposures are monitored on an ongoing basis. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that are primarily related to changes in the functional currency value of revenues generated from foreign currency-denominated transactions and changes in the functional currency value of payments in foreign currencies. we manage these risks by entering into foreign currency forward contracts that hedge exposures of the variability in the functional currency equivalent of anticipated non-functional currency denominated cash flows. our foreign currency exchange rate risk management program reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. the aggregate notional amounts of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding in our exchange rate risk management program, including contracts not designated for cash flow hedge accounting, were $3.1 billion and $3.7 billion at september 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. the aggregate notional amount outstanding at september 30, 2019 is fully consistent with our strategy and treasury policy aimed at reducing foreign exchange risk below a predetermined and approved threshold. however, actual results could materially differ from our forecast. the effect of a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the functional currencies is estimated to create an additional fair value gain of approximately $245 million or loss of approximately $300 million , respectively, on our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at september 30, 2019 . the gain or loss from this hypothetical strengthening or weakening would be largely offset by a corresponding gain or loss on our cash flows from foreign currency-denominated revenues and payments. see note 1 summary of significant accounting policies and note 12 derivative and non-derivative financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. we are further exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to translation as the functional currency of visa europe is the euro. translation from the euro to the u.s. dollar is performed for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for revenue and expense accounts using an average exchange rate for the period. resulting translation adjustments are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss on the consolidated balance sheets. a hypothetical 10% change in the euro against the u.s. dollar compared to the exchange rate at september 30, 2019 , would result in a foreign currency translation adjustment of $2.0 billion . see note 1 summary of significant accounting policies to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. we are also subject to foreign currency exchange risk in daily settlement activities. this risk arises from the timing of rate setting for settlement with clients relative to the timing of market trades for balancing currency positions. risk in settlement activities is limited through daily operating procedures, including the utilization of visa settlement systems and our interaction with foreign exchange trading counterparties. 50 table of contents interest rate risk our investment portfolio assets are held in both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate securities. these assets are included in cash equivalents and short-term or long-term available-for-sale investments. investments in fixed-rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. the fair value of fixed-rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. additionally, a falling-rate environment creates reinvestment risk because as securities mature, the proceeds are reinvested at a lower rate, generating less interest income. historically, we have been able to hold investments until maturity. neither our operating results or cash flows have been, nor are they expected to be, materially impacted by a sudden change in market interest rates. the fair value balances of our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2019 and 2018 were $1.8 billion and $5.1 billion , respectively. the fair value balances of our adjustable-rate debt securities were $4.6 billion and $3.5 billion at september 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would create an estimated decrease in fair value of approximately $9 million on our investment securities at september 30, 2019 . in fiscal 2019, we entered into interest rate and cross-currency swap agreements on a portion of our outstanding senior notes that allow us to manage our interest rate exposure through a combination of fixed and floating rates and reduce our overall cost of borrowing. together these swap agreements effectively convert a portion of our u.s. dollar denominated fixed-rate payments into euro denominated floating-rate payments. by entering into interest rate swaps, we have assumed risks associated with market interest rate fluctuations. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an increase of approximately $30 million in annual interest expense. see note 12 derivative and non-derivative financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. pension plan risk at september 30, 2019 and 2018 , our u.s. defined benefit pension plan assets were $1.1 billion at each year end, and projected benefit obligations were $0.9 billion and $0.8 billion , respectively. a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or in the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of pension plan assets and a 1% decrease in the discount rate would result in an aggregate decrease of approximately $220 million in the funded status and an increase of approximately $43 million in pension cost. at september 30, 2019 and 2018 , our non-u.s. defined benefit pension plan assets were $0.5 billion and $0.4 billion , respectively, and projected benefit obligations were $0.5 billion at each year end. a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or in the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of pension plan assets and a 1% decrease in the discount rate would result in an aggregate decrease of approximately $182 million in the funded status and an increase of approximately $15 million in pension cost. we will continue to monitor the performance of pension plan assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of our contribution to the pension plan for fiscal 2020 , if any, which would be made in september 2020. 51 table of contentsrisk factors regulatory risks we are subject to complex and evolving global regulations that could harm our business and financial results. as a global payments technology company, we are subject to complex and evolving regulations that govern our operations. see item 1 business government regulation for more information on the most significant areas of regulation that affect our business. the impact of these regulations on us, our clients, and other third parties could limit our ability to enforce our payments system rules; require us to adopt new rules or change existing rules; affect our existing contractual arrangements; increase our compliance costs; require us to make our technology or 19 table of content intellectual property available to third parties, including competitors, in an undesirable manner; and reduce our revenue opportunities. as discussed in more detail below, we may face differing rules and regulations in matters like interchange reimbursement rates, preferred routing, domestic processing requirements, currency conversion, point-of-sale transaction rules and practices, privacy, data use or protection, licensing requirements, and associated product technology. as a result, the visa operating rules and our other contractual commitments may differ from country to country or by product offering. complying with these and other regulations increases our costs and could reduce our revenue opportunities. if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty rapidly adjusting our product offerings, services, fees and other important aspects of our business in the regions where we operate. our compliance programs and policies are designed to support our compliance with a wide array of regulations and laws, such as anti-money laundering, anti-corruption, competition, privacy and sanctions, and we continually enhance our compliance programs as regulations evolve. however, we cannot guarantee that our practices will be deemed compliant by all applicable regulatory authorities. in the event our controls should fail or we are found to be out of compliance for other reasons, we could be subject to monetary damages, civil and criminal penalties, litigation, investigations and proceedings, and damage to our global brands and reputation. furthermore, the evolving and increased regulatory focus on the payments industry could negatively impact or reduce the number of visa products our clients issue, the volume of payments we process, our revenues, our brands, our competitive positioning, our ability to use our intellectual property to differentiate our products and services, the quality and types of products and services we offer, the countries in which our products are used, and the types of consumers and merchants who can obtain or accept our products, all of which could harm our business. increased scrutiny and regulation of the global payments industry, including with respect to interchange reimbursement fees, merchant discount rates, operating rules, risk management protocols and other related practices, could harm our business. regulators around the world have been establishing or increasing their authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments industry. see item 1 business government regulation for more information . in the u.s. and many other jurisdictions, we have historically set default interchange reimbursement fees. even though we generally do not receive any revenue related to interchange reimbursement fees in a payment transaction (in the context of credit and debit transactions, those fees are paid by the acquirers to the issuers; the reverse is true for certain transactions like atm), interchange reimbursement fees are a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. consequently, changes to these fees, whether voluntarily or by mandate, can substantially affect our overall payments volumes and revenues. interchange reimbursement fees, certain operating rules and related practices continue to be subject to increased government regulation globally, and regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions have reviewed or are reviewing these fees, rules, and practices. for example, regulations adopted by the u.s. federal reserve cap the maximum u.s. debit interchange reimbursement rate received by large financial institutions at 21 cents plus 5 basis points per transaction, plus a possible fraud adjustment of 1 cent. the dodd-frank act also limits issuers' and our ability to adopt network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit and prepaid area, which also impacts our business. the eu's ifr places an effective cap on consumer credit and consumer debit interchange fees for both domestic and cross-border transactions within the eea (30 basis points and 20 basis points, respectively). eu member states have the ability to further reduce these interchange levels within their territories. the european commission concluded its impact assessment of the ifr, indicating that while it does not intend to expand the legislation at this time, it will continue to monitor market dynamics. countries in other parts of the world, including the latin america region, have either adopted or are exploring interchange caps. for example, in march 2017, argentina's central bank passed regulations that cap interchange fees on credit and debit transactions. in march 2018, brazil adopted interchange caps on debit transactions and in march 2020, the congress in costa rica passed legislation allowing the central bank to regulate interchange and other fees. finally, in australia, the reserve bank is in the process of reviewing the country's payment system regulations, which could potentially result in lower and/or additional interchange caps and other restrictions on our business. when we cannot set default interchange reimbursement rates at optimal levels, issuers and acquirers may find our payments system less attractive. this may increase the attractiveness of other payments systems, such as our competitors' closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. we believe some issuers may react to such regulations by charging new or higher fees, or reducing certain benefits to consumers, which make our products less appealing to consumers. some acquirers may elect to charge higher merchant discount rates (mdr) regardless of the visa interchange reimbursement rate, causing merchants not to 20 table of content accept our products or to steer customers to alternate payments systems or forms of payment. in addition, in an effort to reduce the expense of their payment programs, some issuers and acquirers have obtained, and may continue to obtain, incentives from us, including reductions in the fees that we charge, which may directly impact our revenues. in addition to the regulation of interchange reimbursement fees, a number of regulators impose restrictions on other aspects of our payments business. for example, many governments including, but not limited to governments in india and turkey are using regulation to further drive down mdr, which could negatively affect the economics of our transactions. some countries in latin america, like peru and chile are relying on antitrust-driven regulatory actions that can have implications for how the payments ecosystem and four party model operate. the psr's review of the acquiring market in the united kingdom could lead to additional regulatory pressure on our business. with increased merchant lobbying, we could also begin to see regulatory interest in network fees. government regulations or pressure may also require us to allow other payments networks to support visa products or services, or to have the other network's functionality or brand marks on our products. as innovations in payment technology have enabled us to expand into new products and services, they have also expanded the potential scope of regulatory influence. for instance, new products and capabilities, including tokenization, push payments, and non-card based payment flows (e.g., b2b connect) could bring increased licensing or authorization requirements in the countries where the product or capability is offered. in addition, the european union's requirement to separate scheme and processing adds costs and impacts the execution of our commercial, innovation and product strategies. we are also subject to central bank oversight in some markets, including, brazil, russia, the united kingdom and within the european union. this oversight could result in new governance, reporting, licensing, cybersecurity, processing infrastructure, capital, or credit risk management requirements. we could also be required to adopt policies and practices designed to mitigate settlement and liquidity risks, including increased requirements to maintain sufficient levels of capital and financial resources locally, as well as localized risk management or governance. they could also include new criteria for member participation and merchant access to our payments system. additionally, regulators in other jurisdictions are considering or adopting approaches based on similar regulatory principles. regulators around the world increasingly take note of each other's approaches to regulating the payments industry. consequently, a development in one jurisdiction may influence regulatory approaches in another. the risks created by a new law, regulation or regulatory outcome in one jurisdiction have the potential to be replicated and to negatively affect our business in another jurisdiction or in other product offerings. for example, our settlement with the european commission on cross-border interchange rates has drawn some preliminary attention of regulators in other parts of the world. similarly, new regulations involving one product offering may prompt regulators to extend the regulations to other product offerings. for example, credit payments could become subject to similar regulation as debit payments (or vice versa). for instance, the reserve bank of australia initially capped credit interchange, but subsequently capped debit interchange as well. government-imposed obligations and/or restrictions on international payment systems may prevent us from competing against providers in certain countries, including significant markets such as china, india and russia. governments in a number of jurisdictions shield domestic payment card networks, brands, and processors from international competition by imposing market access barriers and preferential domestic regulations. to varying degrees, these policies and regulations affect the terms of competition in the marketplace and undermine the competitiveness of international payments networks. public authorities may impose regulatory requirements that favor domestic providers or mandate that domestic payments or data processing be performed entirely within that country, which could prevent us from managing the end-to-end processing of certain transactions. in russia, legislation effectively prevents us from processing domestic transactions. the central bank controlled national payment card system (nspk) is the only entity allowed to process domestically. in china, unionpay remains the sole processor of domestic payment card transactions and operates the sole domestic acceptance mark. although we have filed an application with the people's bank of china (pboc) to operate a bank card clearing institution (bcci) in china, the timing and the procedural steps for approval remain uncertain. the approval process might require several years, and there is no guarantee that the license to operate a bcci will be approved or, if we obtain such license, that we will be able to successfully compete with domestic payments networks. 21 table of content regulatory initiatives in india also suggest growing nationalistic priorities, including a data localization mandate passed by the government, which has cost implications for us and could affect our ability to effectively compete with domestic payment providers. in europe, with the support of the european central bank, a group of european banks have announced their intent to launch a pan-european payment system, the european payments initiative or epi, with the purported intent to reduce the risks of disintermediation by international technology companies and continued reliance on international payments networks for intra-europe card transactions. furthermore, regional groups of countries, such as the gulf cooperation council (gcc) and a number of countries in southeast asia, are considering, or may consider, efforts to restrict our participation in the processing of regional transactions. the african development bank has also indicated an interest in supporting national payment systems in its efforts to expand financial inclusion and strengthen regional financial stability. finally, some countries such as south africa are mandating on-shore processing of domestic transactions. geopolitical events, including sanctions, trade tensions or other types of activities could potentially intensify any or all of these activities, which could adversely affect our business. due to our inability to manage the end-to-end processing of transactions for cards in certain countries (e.g., russia and thailand), we depend on our close working relationships with our clients or third-party processors to ensure transactions involving our products are processed effectively. our ability to do so may be adversely affected by regulatory requirements and policies pertaining to transaction routing or on-shore processing. co-badging and co-residency regulations may pose additional challenges in markets where visa competes with national networks for issuance and routing. for example, in china, certain banks have issued dual-branded cards for which domestic transactions in china are processed by unionpay and transactions outside of china are processed by us or other international payments networks. the pboc is contemplating that dual-branded cards could be phased out over time as new licenses are issued to international companies to participate in china's domestic payments market. accordingly, we have been working with chinese issuers to issue visa-only branded cards for international travel, and later for domestic transactions after we obtain a bcci license. however, notwithstanding such efforts, the phase out of dual-branded cards may decrease our payment volumes and impact the revenue we generate in china. mir and unionpay have grown rapidly in russia and china, respectively, and are actively pursuing international expansion plans, which could potentially lead to regulatory pressures on our international routing rule (which requires that international transactions on visa cards be routed over visanet). furthermore, although regulatory barriers shield mir and unionpay from competition in russia and china, respectively, alternate payment providers such as alipay and wechat pay have rapidly expanded into ecommerce, offline, and cross-border payments, which could make it difficult for us to compete even if our license is approved in china. recently, with strong backing from china's government, a new digital transaction routing system known as netsunion was established. the pboc allowed alipay and other digital payment providers to invest in netsunion. it and other such systems could have a competitive advantage in comparison with international payments networks . finally, central banks, including those in australia, brazil and russia, are in the process of developing or expanding national real-time payments networks with the goal of driving a greater number of domestic transactions onto these systems. similarly, an increasing number of jurisdictions are exploring the concept of building central bank digital currencies for retail payments. if successfully deployed, these national payment platforms and digital currencies could have significant implications for visa's domestic and cross-border payments, including potential disintermediation. in general, national laws that protect or otherwise support domestic providers or processing may increase our costs; decrease our payments volumes and impact the revenue we generate in those countries; decrease the number of visa products issued or processed; impede us from utilizing our global processing capabilities and controlling the quality of the services supporting our brands; restrict our activities; limit our growth and the ability to introduce new products, services and innovations; force us to leave countries or prevent us from entering new markets; and create new competitors, all of which could harm our business. laws and regulations regarding the handling of personal data and information may impede our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against us . our business relies on the processing of data in many jurisdictions and the movement of data across national borders. legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data continue to evolve, and regulatory scrutiny in this area is increasing around the world. for example, in july 2020 the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) ruled to invalidate the u.s./eu privacy shield - a legal 22 table of content framework that allowed participating companies to transfer personal data from eu member states to the u.s. visa has never used the privacy shield framework for its transfers, and relies instead on standard contractual clauses. however, the cjeu ruling made clear that these transfer mechanisms will be subject to additional scrutiny as well. significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. for example, the eu's general data protection regulation (gdpr) extends the scope of the eu data protection law to all companies processing data of eu residents, regardless of the company's location. the law requires companies to comply with a broad range of requirements regarding the handling of personal data. although we have a global data privacy program that addresses the requirements applicable to our international business, our ongoing efforts to comply with gdpr and rapidly emerging privacy and data protection laws (such as the california consumer privacy act and the brazilian general data protection law) may increase the complexity of our compliance operations, entail substantial expenses, divert resources from other initiatives and projects, and could limit the services we are able to offer. i nconsistent local and regional regulations restricting location, movement, collection, use and management of data may limit our ability to innovate or compete in certain jurisdictions. for example, india has adopted a data localization law that requires all payment system operators to store domestic transaction data only in india. such data localization requirements have cost implications for us, impact our ability to utilize the efficiencies and value of our global network, and could affect our strategy. furthermore, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. the enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, regulations, or future enforcement actions or investigations could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. we may be subject to tax examinations or disputes, or changes in tax laws. we exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may limit their accuracy. we are currently under examination by, or in disputes with, the u.s. internal revenue service, the uk's hm revenue &amp; customs as well as tax authorities in other jurisdictions, and we may be subject to additional examinations or disputes in the future. relevant tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. failure to sustain our position in these matters could harm our cash flow and financial position. in addition, changes in existing laws in the u.s. or foreign jurisdictions, which may be more likely if there is a change in the u.s. administration, or changes resulting from the organisation for economic cooperation and development's programme of work, related to the revision of profit allocation and nexus rules and design of a system to ensure multinational enterprises pay a minimum level of tax, may also materially affect our effective tax rate. a substantial increase in our tax payments could have a material, adverse effect on our financial results. see also note 19 income taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. litigation risks we may be adversely affected by the outcome of litigation or investigations, despite certain protections that are in place. we are involved in numerous litigation matters, investigations, and proceedings asserted by civil litigants, governments, and enforcement bodies investigating or alleging, among other things, violations of competition and antitrust law, consumer protection law, privacy law, and intellectual property law (these are referred to as actions in this section). details of the most significant actions we face are described more fully in note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. these actions are inherently uncertain, expensive, and disruptive to our operations. in the event we are found liable in any material action, particularly in a large class action lawsuit, such as one involving an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages in the u.s., or we incur liability arising from a government investigation, we may be required to pay significant awards, settlements, or fines. in addition, settlement terms, judgments, or pressures resulting from actions may harm our business by requiring us to modify, among other things, the default interchange reimbursement rates we set, the visa operating rules or the way in which we enforce those rules, our fees or pricing, or the way we do business. these actions or their outcomes may also influence regulators, investigators, governments, or civil litigants in the same or other jurisdictions, which may lead to additional actions 23 table of content against visa. finally, we are required by some of our commercial agreements to indemnify other entities for litigation brought against them, even if visa is not a defendant. for certain actions like those that are u.s. covered litigation or ve territory covered litigation, as described in note 5 u.s. and europe retrospective responsibility plans and note 20 legal matters to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report, we have certain financial protections pursuant to the respective retrospective responsibility plans. the two retrospective responsibility plans are different in the protections they provide and the mechanisms by which we are protected. the failure of one or both of the retrospective responsibility plans to adequately insulate us from the impact of such settlements, judgments, losses, or liabilities could materially harm our financial condition or cash flows, or even cause us to become insolvent. business risks the extent to which the covid-19 outbreak and measures taken in response thereto impact our business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and are difficult to predict. the global impacts of the covid-19 outbreak and related government actions taken to reduce the spread of the virus have been weighing on the macroeconomic environment, and have significantly increased economic uncertainty and reduced economic activity. the outbreak has resulted in authorities implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place or total lock-down orders and business limitations and shutdowns that began in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020. the spread of covid-19 has caused us to modify our business practices (including restricting employee travel, implementing office closures, having our employees work remotely for the rest of 2020 and cancelling physical participation in meetings, events and conferences), and we may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or as we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers and business partners. the covid-19 outbreak has also impacted scheduled events in which visa is a sponsor as event organizers consult with health experts, government authorities and other stakeholders to prioritize the health and wellbeing of our global community. this has caused us to make modifications to some of our planned activities and has impacted some of our marketing initiatives. cross-border volume continues to be heavily impacted by the decline in travel. international cross-border transaction revenues represent a significant part of our revenue. in addition, we may experience financial losses due to a number of operational factors, including: merchant, acquirer and issuer failures and credit settlement risk, particularly with respect to the retail, travel and hospitality industries which have been impacted especially hard by the pandemic, including airlines, cruise ships, hotels, restaurants and entertainment events. the closings and/or failures of a large number of these businesses could result in financial stress on our acquiring partners, and potentially lead to settlement failures, triggering visa's indemnification obligations. it could also lead to bankruptcies that may result in impairments to our assets or our receivables to be written-off; clients may re-negotiate existing agreements or seek early renewal of agreements due to the impact of the outbreak on their business, payments volume and incentives; the mix of visa's clients or the amount of business we do with certain clients may change; third party disruptions, including potential outages at network providers, call centers and other suppliers; increased cyber and payment fraud risk related to covid-19, as cybercriminals attempt ddos related attacks, phishing scams and other disruptive actions, given the shift to online banking, e-commerce and other online activity, as well as more employees working remotely as a result of the outbreak; challenges to the availability and reliability of our network due to changes to normal operations, including the possibility of one or more clusters of covid-19 cases occurring at our data centers, affecting our employees, or affecting the systems or employees of our issuers, acquirers or merchants; and additional regulatory requirements, including, for example, government initiatives or requests to reduce or eliminate payments fees or other costs. a number of countries have taken steps to temporarily cap 24 table of content interchange or other fees on electronic payments as part of their covid-19 economic relief measures. it is possible that some or all of these caps may become permanent over time, or that we see governments introduce additional and/or new pricing caps in future economic relief initiatives. in addition, proponents of interchange and/or mdr regulation may try to position government intervention as necessary to support recovery efforts. in an overall soft global economy, such pricing measures could result in additional financial pressures on our business. there are no comparable recent events that provide guidance as to the effect covid-19 may have on our business, and, as a result, the ultimate impact of the outbreak is highly uncertain and subject to change. while we have taken measures to modify our business practices and reduce operating expenses, including scaling back hiring plans, restricting travel, lowering marketing spend and the use of external resources, the impact that covid-19 will have on our business, results of operations and financial condition in the longer term remains difficult to predict due to numerous uncertainties, including the transmissibility, severity and duration of the outbreak, the effectiveness of social distancing measures or actions that are voluntarily adopted by the public or required by governments or public health authorities, the development and availability of effective treatments or vaccines, and the impact to our employees and our operations, the business of our clients, supplier and business partners, and other factors. consumers affected by covid-19 may continue to demonstrate changed behavior even after the covid-19 outbreak has subsided. for example, consumers may decrease discretionary spending on a permanent or long-term basis, certain industries may take longer to recover (particularly those that rely on travel or large gatherings) as consumers may be hesitant to return to full social interaction, and we may continue to see consumers decrease spending on credit products as economic worries continue, all of which may have adverse implications for our business. as a result, we may continue to experience materially adverse impacts to our business as a result of the virus' global economic impact, including lower domestic and cross border spending trends, the availability of credit, adverse impacts on our liquidity, and any recessionary conditions that persist, and exacerbate many of the other known risks described in this risk factors section. we face intense competition in our industry. the global payments space is intensely competitive. as technology evolves, new competitors or methods of payment emerge, and existing clients and competitors assume different roles. our products compete with cash, checks, electronic funds, virtual currency payments, global or multi-regional networks, other domestic and closed-loop payments systems, and alternative payment providers primarily focused on enabling payments through ecommerce and mobile channels. as the global payments space becomes more complex, we face increasing competition from our clients, other emerging payment providers such as fintechs, other digital payments, technology companies that have developed payments systems enabled through online activity in ecommerce and mobile channels, as well as governments in a number of jurisdictions (e.g. brazil, india and russia), that are developing, supporting and/or operating national schemes, real time payment networks, and other payment platforms. our competitors may develop substantially better technology, have more widely adopted delivery channels or have greater financial resources. they may offer more effective, innovative or a wider range of programs, products, and services. they may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies that result in broader brand recognition, and greater use, including with respect to issuance and merchant acceptance. they may also develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements. moreover, even if we successfully adapt to technological change and the proliferation of alternative types of payment services by developing and offering our own services in these areas, such services may provide less favorable financial terms for us than we currently receive from visanet transactions, which could hurt our financial results and prospects. certain of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures, or participate in different market segments. those business models may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to regulatory, technological, and other developments. in some cases, these competitors have the support of government mandates that prohibit, limit, or otherwise hinder our ability to compete for transactions within certain countries and regions. some of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks, virtual currency providers, technology companies that enable the exchange of digital assets, and certain alternate payments systems like alipay and wechat pay, operate closed-loop payments systems, with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. government actions or initiatives such as the dodd-frank act, the ifr in europe, or real time payment initiatives by governments such as the u.s. federal reserve's fednow or the central bank of 25 table of content brazil's pix system may provide competitors with increased opportunities to derive competitive advantages from these business models, and may create new competitors, including in some cases the government itself. similarly, regulation in europe under psd2 and the ifr may require us to open up access to, and allow participation in, our network to additional participants, and reduce the infrastructure investment and regulatory burden on competitors. we also run the risk of disintermediation due to factors such as emerging technologies, including mobile payments, alternate payment credentials, other ledger technologies or payment forms, and by virtue of increasing bilateral agreements between entities that prefer not to use our payments network for processing transactions. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly with issuers and acquirers. we expect the competitive landscape to continue to shift and evolve. for example: we, along with our competitors, clients, network participants, and others are developing or participating in alternate payment networks or products, such as mobile payment services, ecommerce payment services, p2p payment services, real-time and faster payment initiatives, and payment services that permit ach or direct debits from or to consumer checking accounts, that could either reduce our role or otherwise disintermediate us from the transaction processing or the value added services we provide to support such processing. examples include initiatives from the clearing house, an association consisting of large financial institutions that has developed its own faster payments system; early warning services, which operates zelle, a bank-offered alternative network that provides another platform for faster funds or real-time payments across a variety of payment types, including p2p, corporate and government disbursement, bill pay and deposit check transactions; and crypto-currency or stablecoin-based payments initiatives. similarly, many countries are developing or promoting domestic networks, switches and real-time payment systems (e.g. india, russia, as well as europe). to the extent these governments mandate local banks and merchants to use and accept these systems for domestic or other transactions, prohibit international payments networks, like visa, from participating on those systems, and/or impose restrictions or prohibitions, on international payments networks from offering payment services on such transactions, we could face the risk of our business being disintermediated in those countries. for example, in argentina, the government recently issued a regulation that mandates local acquirers to use debit card credentials to initiate payment transactions on a government-sponsored national real-time payment system. furthermore, in some regions (e.g., southeast asia; the middle east), through intergovernmental organizations such as the association of southeast asian nations and the gcc, some countries are looking into cross-border connectivity of such domestic systems; parties that process our transactions may try to minimize or eliminate our position in the payments value chain; parties that access our payment credentials, tokens and technologies, including clients, technology solution providers or others might be able to migrate account holders and other clients to alternate payment methods or use our payment credentials, tokens and technologies to establish or help bolster alternate payment methods and platforms; participants in the payments industry may merge, form joint ventures or enable or enter into other business combinations that strengthen their existing business propositions or create new, competing payment services; and new or revised industry standards related to online checkout and web payments, cloud-based payments, tokenization or other payments-related technologies set by individual countries, regions or organizations such as the international organization for standardization, american national standards institute, world wide web consortium, european card standards group, pci co, nexo and emvco may result in additional costs and expenses for visa and its clients, or otherwise negatively impact the functionality and competitiveness of our products and services. as the competitive landscape is quickly evolving, we may not be able to foresee or respond sufficiently to emerging risks associated with new businesses, products, services and practices. we may be asked to adjust our local rules and practices, develop or customize certain aspects of our payment services, or agree to business arrangements that may be less protective of visa's proprietary technology and interests in order to compete and we may face increasing operational costs and risk of litigation concerning intellectual property. our failure to compete effectively in light of any such developments could harm our business and prospects for future growth. 26 table of content our revenues and profits are dependent on our client and merchant base, which may be costly to win, retain, and maintain. our financial institution clients and merchants can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. while we have certain contractual protections, our clients, including some of our largest clients, generally have flexibility to issue non-visa products. further, in certain circumstances, our financial institution clients may decide to terminate our contractual relationship on relatively short notice without paying significant early termination fees. because a significant portion of our net revenues is concentrated among our largest clients, the loss of business from any one of these larger clients could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. for more information, please see note 14 enterprise-wide disclosures and concentration of business to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. in addition, we face intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our financial institution clients. in order to stay competitive, we may need to adjust our pricing or offer incentives to our clients to increase payments volume, enter new market segments, adapt to regulatory changes, and expand their use and acceptance of visa products and services. these include up-front cash payments, fee discounts, rebates, credits, performance-based incentives, marketing, and other support payments that impact our revenues and profitability. in addition, we offer incentives to certain merchants or acquirers to win routing preference in situations where other network functionality is enabled on our products and there is a choice of network routing options. market pressures on pricing, incentives, fee discounts, and rebates could moderate our growth. if we are not able to implement cost containment and productivity initiatives in other areas of our business or increase our volumes in other ways to offset or absorb the financial impact of these incentives, fee discounts, and rebates, it may harm our net revenues and profits. in addition, it may be difficult or costly for us to acquire or conduct business with financial institutions or merchants that have longstanding exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors. these financial institutions or merchants may be more successful and may grow more quickly than our existing clients or merchants. in addition, if there is a consolidation or acquisition of one or more of our largest clients or co-brand partners by a financial institution client or merchant with a strong relationship with one of our competitors, it could result in our business shifting to a competitor, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our business. merchants' and processors' continued push to lower acceptance costs and challenge industry practices could harm our business. we rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our clients to maintain and expand the acceptance of visa products. certain merchants and merchant-affiliated groups have been exerting their influence in the global payments system in certain jurisdictions, such as the u.s., canada and europe, to attempt to lower their acceptance costs by lobbying for new legislation, seeking regulatory intervention, filing lawsuits and in some cases, refusing to accept visa products. if they are successful in their efforts, we may face increased compliance and litigation expenses, issuers may decrease their issuance of our products, and consumer usage of our products could be adversely impacted. for example, in the u.s., certain stakeholders have raised concerns regarding how payment security standards and rules may impact debit routing choice and the cost of payment card acceptance. in addition to ongoing litigation related to the u.s. migration to emv-capable cards and point-of-sale terminals, u.s. merchant-affiliated groups and processors have expressed concerns regarding the emv certification process and some policymakers have expressed concerns about the roles of industry bodies such as emvco and the payment card industry security standards council in the development of payment card standards. additionally, some merchants and processors have advocated for changes to industry practices and visa acceptance requirements at the point of sale, including the ability for merchants to accept only certain types of visa products, to mandate only pin authenticated transactions, to differentiate or steer among visa product types issued by different financial institutions, and to impose surcharges on customers presenting visa products as their form of payment. if successful, these efforts could adversely impact consumers' usage of our products, lead to regulatory enforcement and/or litigation, increase our compliance and litigation expenses, and harm our business. we depend on relationships with financial institutions, acquirers, processors, merchants, and other third parties. as noted above, our relationships with industry participants are complex and require us to balance the interests of multiple third parties. for instance, we depend significantly on relationships with our financial institution clients and on their relationships with account holders and merchants to support our programs and services, and 27 table of content thereby compete effectively in the marketplace. we engage in discussions with merchants, acquirers, commerce platforms and processors to provide incentives to promote routing preference and acceptance growth. we also engage in many payment card co-branding efforts with merchants, who receive incentives from us. as emerging participants such as fintechs enter the payments industry, we engage in discussions to address the role they may play in the ecosystem, whether as, for example, an issuer, merchant, commerce platform or digital wallet provider. as these and other relationships become more prevalent and take on a greater importance to our business, our success will increasingly depend on our ability to sustain and grow these relationships. in addition, we depend on our clients and third parties, including network partners, vendors and suppliers, to submit, facilitate and process transactions properly, provide various services associated with our payments network on our behalf, and otherwise adhere to our operating rules and applicable laws. to the extent that such parties fail to perform or deliver adequate services, it may result in negative experiences for account holders or others when using their visa-branded payment products, which could harm our business and reputation. our business could be harmed if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, if events occur that have the potential to damage our brand or reputation, or if we experience brand disintermediation. our brand is globally recognized and is a key asset of our business. we believe that our clients and account holders associate our brand with acceptance, security, convenience, speed, and reliability. our success depends in large part on our ability to maintain the value of our brand and reputation of our products and services in the payments ecosystem, elevate the brand through new and existing products, services and partnerships, and uphold our corporate reputation. the popularity of products that we have developed in partnership with technology companies and financial institutions may have the potential to cause consumer confusion or brand disintermediation at the point-of-sale and decrease the value of our brand. our brand reputation may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including authorization, clearing and settlement service disruptions; data security breaches; compliance failures by visa, including our employees, agents, clients, partners or suppliers; failure to meet our environmental, social and governance goals, negative perception of our industry, the industries of our clients or visa-accepting merchants; ill-perceived actions by clients, partners or other third parties, such as sponsorship or co-brand partners; and fraudulent, risky, controversial or illegal activities using our payment products. if we are unable to maintain our reputation, the value of our brand may be impaired, which could harm our relationships with clients, account holders, and the public, as well as impact our business. global economic, political, market, health and social events or conditions may harm our business. more than half of our net revenues are earned outside the u.s. international cross-border transaction revenues represent a significant part of our revenue and are an important part of our growth strategy. our revenues are dependent on the volume and number of payment transactions made by consumers, governments, and businesses whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic, political, market, health and social events or conditions. adverse macroeconomic conditions, including recessions, inflation, high unemployment, currency fluctuations, actual or anticipated large-scale defaults or failures, or a slowdown of global trade could decrease consumer and corporate confidence and reduce consumer, small business, government, and corporate spending which have a direct impact on our revenues. in addition, outbreaks of illnesses, pandemics, or other local or global health issues, political uncertainties, international hostilities, armed conflict, or unrest, climate-related events, including the increasing frequency of extreme weather events, and natural disasters could have similar impacts on our operations, clients, third-party suppliers, activities in a particular location or globally, and cross-border travel and spend. geopolitical trends towards nationalism, protectionism, and restrictive visa requirements, as well as continued activity and uncertainty around economic sanctions, tariffs or trade restrictions could limit the expansion of our business in those regions. as a result of any of these factors, any decline in cross-border travel and spend could impact the number of cross-border transactions we process and our currency exchange activities, which in turn would reduce our international transaction revenues. a decline in economic, political, market, health and social conditions could impact our clients as well, and their decisions could reduce the number of cards, accounts, and credit lines of their account holders, which ultimately impact our revenues. they may also implement cost-reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate marketing budgets, and decrease spending on optional or enhanced value added services from us. any events or conditions that impair the functioning of the financial markets, tighten the credit market, or lead to a downgrade of our current credit rating could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access the capital and credit markets on favorable terms, which could affect our liquidity and capital resources, or significantly increase our cost of capital. if clients default on their settlement obligations, it may also impact our liquidity. any of these events could adversely affect our volumes and revenue. 28 table of content our indemnification obligation to fund settlement losses of our clients exposes us to significant risk of loss and may reduce our liquidity. we indemnify issuers and acquirers for settlement losses they may suffer due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to honor its settlement obligations in accordance with the visa operating rules. in certain instances, we may indemnify issuers or acquirers in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. this indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the timing difference between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. our indemnification exposure is generally limited to the amount of unsettled visa card payment transactions at any point in time and any subsequent amounts that may fall due relating to adjustments for previously processed transactions. concurrent settlement failures or insolvencies involving more than one of our largest clients, several of our smaller clients, or systemic operational failures could negatively impact our financial position. even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure or insolvency, we may be unable to recover the amount of such payment. this could expose us to significant losses and harm our business. see note 12 settlement guarantee management to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union could harm our business and financial results. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ). in march 2017, the uk government initiated the exit process under article 50 of the treaty of the european union, commencing a period of up to two years for the united kingdom and the other eu member states to negotiate the terms of the withdrawal, which was subsequently postponed until january 31, 2020, at which point the united kingdom formally withdrew from the eu. since then the united kingdom has continued to participate in the eu from a trade and economic perspective while the parties seek to negotiate a trade deal. the deadline for agreeing to a trade deal is december 31, 2020. uncertainty over the terms of the united kingdom's continued participation in the european union could cause political and economic uncertainty in the united kingdom and the rest of europe, which could harm our business and financial results. brexit will lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations in the united kingdom and european union. we, as well as our clients who have significant operations in the united kingdom, may incur additional costs and expenses as we adapt to potentially divergent regulatory frameworks from the rest of the european union and as a result, our visa operating rules and contractual commitments in the united kingdom and the rest of the european union may be impacted. in addition, applications will need to be made for regulatory authorization and permission in separate eu member states following the post-brexit transition period. these factors may impact our ability to operate and process data in the european union and united kingdom seamlessly. this and other brexit-related issues may require changes to our legal entity structure and/or operations in the united kingdom and the european union. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could harm our business and financial results. technology and cybersecurity risks failure to anticipate, adapt to, or keep pace with, new technologies in the payments industry could harm our business and impact future growth. the global payments industry is undergoing significant and rapid technological change, including mobile and other proximity and in-app payment technologies, ecommerce, tokenization, cryptocurrencies, distributed ledger and blockchain technologies, and new authentication technologies such as biometrics, 3d secure 2.0 and dynamic cardholder verification values or dcvv2. as a result, we expect new services and technologies to continue to emerge and evolve, including those developed by visa such as our cross-border b2b payment service, visa b2b connect. in addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we work closely with third parties, including potential competitors, for the development of, and access to, new technologies. it is difficult, however, to predict which technological developments or innovations will become widely adopted and how those technologies may be regulated. moreover, some of the new technologies could be subject to intellectual property-related lawsuits or claims, potentially impacting our development efforts and/or requiring us to obtain licenses. if we or our partners fail to adapt and keep pace with new technologies in the payments space in a timely manner, it could harm our ability to 29 table of content compete, decrease the value of our products and services to our clients, impact our intellectual property or licensing rights, harm our business and impact our future growth. a disruption, failure or breach of our networks or systems, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could harm our business. our cybersecurity and processing systems, as well as those of financial institutions, merchants, and third-party service providers, have experienced in limited instances and may continue to experience errors, interruptions, delays or damage from a number of causes, including power outages, hardware, software and network failures, computer viruses, malware or other destructive software, internal design, manual or usage errors, cyber-attacks, terrorism, workplace violence or wrongdoing, catastrophic events, natural disasters, severe weather conditions and other effects from climate change. furthermore, our visibility and role in the global payments industry may also put our company at a greater risk of being targeted by hackers. in the normal course of our business, we have been the target of malicious cyber-attack attempts. we have been, and may continue to be, impacted by attacks and data security breaches of financial institutions, merchants, or third-party processors. we are also aware of instances where nation states have sponsored attacks against some of our financial institution clients, and other instances where merchants and issuers have encountered substantial data security breaches affecting their customers, some of whom were visa account holders. such attacks and breaches have resulted, and may continue to result in, fraudulent activity and ultimately, financial losses to visa's clients, and it is difficult to predict the direct or indirect impact of future attacks or breaches to our business. numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced and persistent cyber-attacks, phishing and social engineering schemes, particularly on our internet applications, could compromise the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of data in our systems or the systems of our third-party service providers. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to disable or degrade systems change frequently, have become increasingly more complex and sophisticated, and may be difficult to detect for periods of time, we may not anticipate these acts or respond adequately or timely. the security measures and procedures we, our financial institution and merchant clients, other merchants and third-party service providers in the payments ecosystem have in place to protect sensitive consumer data and other information may not be successful or sufficient to counter all data security breaches, cyber-attacks, or system failures. in some cases, the mitigation efforts may be dependent on third parties who may not deliver to the required contractual standards, who may not be able to timely patch vulnerabilities or fix security defects, or whose hardware, software or network services may be subject to error, defect, delay, outage or lack appropriate malware prevention to prevent breaches or data exfiltration incidents. although we devote significant resources to our cybersecurity and supplier risk management programs and have implemented security measures to protect our systems and data, and to prevent, detect and respond to data security incidents, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent these threats. these events could significantly disrupt our operations; impact our clients and consumers; damage our reputation and brand; result in litigation or claims, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, and increased regulatory review or scrutiny, investigations, actions, fines or penalties; result in damages or changes to our business practices; decrease the overall use and acceptance of our products; decrease our volume, revenues and future growth prospects; and be costly, time consuming and difficult to remedy. in the event of damage or disruption to our business due to these occurrences, we may not be able to successfully and quickly recover all of our critical business functions, assets, and data through our business continuity program. furthermore, while we maintain insurance, our coverage may not sufficiently cover all types of losses or claims that may arise. structural and organizational risks we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or strategic investments, and may face risks and uncertainties as a result. as part of our overall business strategy, we make acquisitions and strategic investments. we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our current and future acquisitions and strategic investments and they may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: disruption to our ongoing business, including diversion of resources and management's attention from our existing business; 30 table of content greater than expected investment of resources or operating expenses; failure to develop the acquired business adequately; the data security, cybersecurity and operational resilience posture of our acquired companies, or companies we invest in or partner with, may not be adequate; difficulty, expense or failure of implementing controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company; challenges of integrating new employees, business cultures, business systems and technologies; failure to retain employees, clients or partners of the acquired business; in the case of foreign acquisitions, risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages; disruptions, costs, liabilities, judgments, settlements or business pressures resulting from litigation matters, investigations or legal proceedings involving the acquisitions or strategic investments. for more information on the proposed acquisition of plaid, please see item 1 business mergers and acquisitions and strategic investments ; the inability to pursue aspects of the acquired business due to outcomes in litigation matters, investigations or legal proceedings; failure to obtain the necessary government or other approvals at all, on a timely basis or without the imposition of burdensome conditions or restrictions; the economic, political, regulatory and compliance risks associated with entering into a new business or operating in new regions or countries. for more information on regulatory risks, please see item 1 business government regulations and item 1a risk factors regulatory risks above; discovery of unidentified issues and related liabilities after the acquisition or investment was made; failure to mitigate the deficiencies and liabilities of the acquired business; dilutive issuance of equity securities, if new securities are issued; the incurrence of debt; negative impact on our financial position and/or statement of operations; and anticipated benefits, synergies or value of the investment or acquisition not materializing. we may be unable to attract, hire, and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce, including key management. the talents and efforts of our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success. our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. we may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms that are competitive with the rest of the labor market. ongoing changes in laws and policies regarding immigration and work authorizations have made it more difficult for employees to work in, or transfer among, jurisdictions in which we have operations and could continue to impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. failure to attract, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly qualified and diverse employee talent, to develop and implement an adequate succession plan for the management team, or to maintain a corporate culture that fosters innovation, and collaboration could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and our future success. the conversions of our class b and class c common stock or series a, b and c preferred stock into shares of class a common stock would result in voting dilution to, and could impact the market price of, our existing class a common stock. the market price of our class a common stock could fall as a result of many factors. the value of our class b and c common stock and series a, b and c preferred stock is tied to the value of the a common stock. under our u.s. retrospective responsibility plan, upon final resolution of our u.s. covered litigation, all class b common stock will become convertible into class a common stock. in september 2020, we released $7.3 billion of the as-converted value from our series b and series c preferred stock and issued series a preferred stock in connection with that release. visa may continue to release value from the series b and series c preferred stock in stages based on developments in current and potential litigation under our europe retrospective responsibility plan. the series b and series c preferred stock will become fully convertible to series a preferred stock or class a common stock no later than 2028 (subject to a holdback to cover any pending claims). visa may take action on the class b common stock and series b and c preferred stock at a certain valuation and due to unforeseen circumstances the overall value of the class b and c common stock and series b and c preferred stock as determined by the a common stock price, may later decrease. conversion of our class b and class c common stock into class a common stock, or our series a, b and c preferred stock into class a common stock, would increase the amount of class a common stock outstanding, which could adversely affect the market price of our existing class a common stock and would dilute the voting power of existing class a common stockholders. 31 table of content holders of our class b and c common stock and series a, b and c preferred stock may have different interests than our class a common stockholders concerning certain significant transactions. although their voting rights are limited, holders of our class b and c common stock and, in certain specified circumstances, holders of our series a, b and c preferred stock, can vote on certain significant transactions. with respect to our class b and c common stock, these transactions include a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business and any other vote required under delaware law. with respect to our series a, b and c preferred stock, voting rights are limited to proposed consolidations or mergers in which holders of the series a, b and c preferred stock would receive shares of stock or other equity securities with preferences, rights and privileges that are not substantially identical to the preferences, rights and privileges of the applicable series of preferred stock; or, in the case of series b and c preferred stock, holders would receive securities, cash or other property that is different from what our class a common stockholders would receive. because the holders of classes of capital stock other than class a common stock are our current and former financial institution clients, they may have interests that diverge from our class a common stockholders. as a result, the holders of these classes of capital stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class a common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with interests of our class a common stockholders. delaware law, provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our capital structure could make a merger, takeover attempt, or change in control difficult. provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and our capital structure could delay or prevent a merger, takeover attempt, or change in control that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, except for limited exceptions: no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class a common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance; no competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may hold more than 5% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis; the affirmative votes of the class b and c common stock and series a, b and c preferred stock are required for certain types of consolidations or mergers; our stockholders may only take action during a stockholders' meeting and may not act by written consent; and only the board of directors, chairman, or ceo may call a special meeting of stockholders. 32 table of content quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss arising from adverse changes in market factors. our exposure to financial market risks results primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. aggregate risk exposures are monitored on an ongoing basis. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that are primarily related to changes in the functional currency value of revenues generated from foreign currency-denominated transactions and changes in the functional currency value of payments in foreign currencies. we manage these risks by entering into foreign currency forward contracts that hedge exposures of the variability in the functional currency equivalent of anticipated non-functional currency denominated cash flows. our foreign currency exchange rate risk management program reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. at september 30, 2020 and 2019, the aggregate notional amounts of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding in our exchange rate risk management program, including contracts not designated for cash flow hedge accounting, were $3.9 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively. the aggregate notional amount outstanding at september 30, 2020 is fully consistent with our strategy and treasury policy aimed at reducing foreign exchange risk below a predetermined and approved threshold. however, actual results could materially differ from our forecast. the effect of a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the functional currencies at september 30, 2020 is estimated to create an additional fair value gain of approximately $210 million or loss of approximately $260 million, respectively, on our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts. the gain or loss from this hypothetical strengthening or weakening would be largely offset by a corresponding gain or loss on our cash flows from foreign currency-denominated revenues and payments. see note 1 summary of significant accounting policies and note 13 derivative financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. we are further exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to translation as the functional currency of visa europe is the euro. translation from the euro to the u.s. dollar is performed for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for revenue and expense accounts using an average exchange rate for the period. resulting translation adjustments are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the consolidated balance sheets. a hypothetical 10% change in the euro against the u.s. dollar compared to the exchange rate at september 30, 2020, would result in a foreign currency translation adjustment of $2.2 billion. see note 1 summary of significant accounting policies to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. we are also subject to foreign currency exchange risk in daily settlement activities. this risk arises from the timing of rate setting for settlement with clients relative to the timing of market trades for balancing currency positions. risk in settlement activities is limited through daily operating procedures, including the utilization of visa settlement systems and our interaction with foreign exchange trading counterparties. 52 table of content interest rate risk our investment portfolio assets are held in both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate securities. investments in fixed-rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. the fair value of fixed-rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. additionally, a falling-rate environment creates reinvestment risk because as securities mature, the proceeds are reinvested at a lower rate, generating less interest income. historically, we have been able to hold investments until maturity. neither our statements of operations or cash flows have been, nor are they expected to be, materially impacted by a sudden change in market interest rates. the fair value of our fixed-rate investment securities at september 30, 2020 and 2019 were $4.0 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. the fair value of our adjustable-rate debt securities were $2.0 billion and $4.6 billion at september 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would create an estimated decrease in fair value of approximately $3.5 million on our investment securities at september 30, 2020. a hypothetical 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would create an estimated increase in fair value of approximately $7.2 million on our investment securities at september 30, 2020. in fiscal 2019, we entered into interest rate and cross-currency swap agreements on a portion of our outstanding senior notes that allow us to manage our interest rate exposure through a combination of fixed and floating rates and reduce our overall cost of borrowing. together these swap agreements effectively convert a portion of our u.s. dollar denominated fixed-rate payments into euro denominated floating-rate payments. by entering into interest rate swaps, we have assumed risks associated with market interest rate fluctuations. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an increase of approximately $30 million in annual interest expense. see note 13 derivative financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this report. equity investment risk as of september 30, 2020 and 2019, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities was $1.0 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively. these investments are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings. a decline in financial condition or operating results of these investments could result in a loss of all or a substantial part of our carrying value in these companies. we regularly review our non-marketable equity securities for possible impairment, which generally involves an analysis of the facts and changes in circumstances influencing the investment, expectations of the entity's cash flows and capital needs, and the viability of its business model. pension plan risk at september 30, 2020 and 2019, our u.s. defined benefit pension plan assets were $1.1 billion and projected benefit obligations were $0.9 billion at each year end. a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or in the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of pension plan assets and a 1% decrease in the discount rate as of september 30, 2020 would result in an aggregate decrease of approximately $221 million in the funded status and an increase of approximately $44 million in pension cost. at september 30, 2020 and 2019, our non-u.s. defined benefit pension plan assets were $0.5 billion at each year end and projected benefit obligations were $0.6 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively. a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or in the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of pension plan assets and a 1% decrease in the discount rate as of september 30, 2020 would result in an aggregate decrease of approximately $194 million in the funded status and an increase of approximately $17 million in pension cost. we will continue to monitor the performance of pension plan assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of our contribution to the pension plans for fiscal 2021, if any, which would be made in september 2021. 53 table of content