quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information set forth under the caption market risks of the section entitled management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 21 of the company annual report to stockholders for the fiscal year ended december 29, 2001 is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information set forth under the caption quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of the section entitled management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 15 of the company annual report to stockholders for the fiscal year ended december 28, 2002 is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company entered into an interest rate swap agreement as a means of managing its interest rate exposure. this agreement, which matured in november 2003, had the effect of converting certain of the company's variable rate obligations to fixed rate obligations. net amounts paid or received are reflected as an adjustment to interest expense. the company complies with sfas nos. 133, 137, and 138 (collectively "sfas 133") pertaining to the accounting for derivatives and hedging activities. sfas 133 requires the company to recognize all derivative instruments in the balance sheet at fair value. sfas 133 impacted the accounting for the company's interest rate swap agreement, which was designated as a cash flow hedge. the company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily from its variable-rate unsecured senior revolving credit agreement. the agreement bears interest at either the bank's base rate (4.00% and 4.25% at december 27, 2003 and december 28, 2002, respectively) or libor (1.14% and 1.42% at december 27, 2003 and december 28, 2002, respectively) plus an additional amount ranging from 0.75% to 1.50% per annum, adjusted quarterly, based on company performance (0.75% and 1.00% at december 27, 2003 and december 28, 2002, respectively). the company is also required to pay, quarterly in arrears, a commitment fee ranging from 0.20% to 0.35% based on the daily average unused portion of the credit line. (see note 4 of notes to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for further discussion regarding this credit agreement.) a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move (increase) in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would result in approximately $330,000 of additional annual interest expense and would not impact the fair market value of the long-term debt. although the company cannot accurately determine the precise effect of inflation on its operations, it does not believe its sales or results of operations have been materially affected by inflation. the company has been successful, in many cases, in reducing or mitigating the effects of inflation principally by taking advantage of vendor incentive programs, economies of scale from increased volume of purchases and selective buying from the most competitive vendors without sacrificing quality. 22quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company entered into an interest rate swap agreement as a means of managing its interest rate exposure. this agreement, which matured in november 2003, had the effect of converting certain of the company's variable rate obligations to fixed rate obligations. net amounts paid or received are reflected as an adjustment to interest expense. the company complies with sfas nos. 133, 137, and 138 (collectively "sfas 133") pertaining to the accounting for derivatives and hedging activities. sfas 133 requires the company to recognize all derivative instruments in the balance sheet at fair value. sfas 133 impacted the accounting for the company's interest rate swap agreement, which was designated as a cash flow hedge. the company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily from its credit agreement. the credit agreement bears interest at either the bank's base rate (5.25% and 4.00% at december 25, 2004 and december 27, 2003, respectively) or libor (2.42% and 1.14% at december 25, 2004 and december 27, 2003, respectively) plus an additional amount ranging from 0.75% to 1.50% per annum, adjusted quarterly, based on company performance (0.75% at both december 25, 2004 and december 27, 2003). the company is also required to pay (quarterly in arrears) a commitment fee ranging from 0.20% to 0.35% based on the daily average unused portion of the credit line. a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move (increase) in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would result in approximately $98,000 of additional annual interest expense and would not impact the fair market value of the long-term debt. 27risk factors the company's business faces many risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company currently deems immaterial. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occurs, the company's business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the trading price of the company's common stock could decline. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this form 10-k. general economic conditions may adversely affect the company's financial performance. the company has exposure to potentially higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, higher labor and healthcare costs, and other economic factors that adversely affect consumer demand for the merchandise offered by the company. additionally, changes in the mix of products sold to a mix with a lower overall gross margin or other increased cost of sales, along with slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory, could adversely affect the company's financial performance. high levels of unemployment, inflation, changes in tax and other laws and other adverse developments in the economy may also adversely affect consumer demand for the company's merchandise, adversely affect gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect the company's operations and operating results. inflationary pressures, including rising energy prices, may adversely affect the company's financial performance. although the company cannot accurately determine the full effect of inflation on its operations, it believes its sales and results of operations have been affected by inflation. the company is subject to market risk with respect to the pricing of certain products and services, which include, among other items, steel, grain, petroleum, corn, soybean and other commodities as well as transportation services. moreover, in the last few years, energy prices have risen dramatically, which has resulted in increased fuel costs for the company's business and utility costs for the company's stores. the company has been successful in reducing or mitigating the effects of inflation, principally 6 through selective buying from the most competitive vendors and by increasing retail prices. however, there is no assurance that the company will be successful in reducing or mitigating the effect of inflation on the company in the future. there is no assurance that the company will be able to continue to increase sales at its existing stores. the company experiences fluctuations in its same-store sales, which are defined as stores which have completed twelve months of sales. the company's success depends, in part, upon its ability to improve sales at its existing stores. various factors affect same-store sales, including the general retail sales environment, the company's ability to efficiently source and distribute products, changes in the company's merchandise mix, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. these factors may cause the company's same-store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. past same-store sales are not necessarily an indication of future results, and there can be no assurance that the company's same-store sales will not decrease in the future. any failure to meet the same-store sales expectations of investors and security analysts in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of the company's common stock. the company's failure to effectively manage growth could impair its business. even if the company is able to implement, to a significant degree, its key business strategy of expanding its store base, it may experience managerial or operational problems, which may prevent any significant increase in profitability or negatively impact its cash flow. to manage its planned expansion, the company must ensure the continuing adequacy of its existing systems, controls and procedures, including product distribution facilities, store management, financial controls and information systems. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to achieve its planned expansion, that the new stores will be effectively integrated into the company's existing operations or that such stores will be profitable. if the company fails to open new stores in the manner currently contemplated, the company's financial performance could be adversely affected. a key part of the company's key business strategy includes the expansion of its base of stores by opening new stores. if the company is unable to implement this strategy, the company's ability to increase its sales, profitability, and cash flow could be impaired significantly. to the extent that the company is unable to open new stores in the manner the company anticipates (due to unforeseen delays in construction or site approval), the company's sales growth would be dependent on increases in same-store sales. any failure to meet the growth expectations of investors and security analysts in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of the company's stock. competition in the company's industry may hinder the company's ability to execute its business strategy and adversely affect its operations. the company operates in a highly competitive market. the principal competitive factors include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service. the company believes it has successfully differentiated itself from general merchandise, home center retailers and other specialty and discount retailers by focusing on its specialized market niche (i.e., supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers and ranchers and those who enjoy the rural lifestyle, as well as tradesmen and small businesses). however, the company does face select competition from these entities, as well as competition from independently-owned retail farm and ranch stores, several privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives. some of these competitors are units of large national or regional chains that have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company. weather conditions may have a significant impact on the company's financial results. historically, weather conditions have had a significant impact on the company's operating results. weather conditions affect the demand for, and in some cases the supply of, products, which in turn has an impact on prices. in recent years, the company has experienced unusually severe weather conditions, including ice storms, floods and wind damage, hurricanes and a summer dearth of water and pasture in some states. weather conditions also directly affect the demand for petroleum products, particularly during the winter heating season. accordingly, the weather can have a material effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. there are certain risks associated with the seasonal nature of the company's business. the company's working capital needs and borrowings generally peak in the first fiscal quarter because lower sales are generated while expenses are incurred in preparation for the spring selling season. if cash on hand and borrowings under existing credit facilities are ever insufficient to meet the seasonal needs or if cash flow generated during the 7 spring and summer is insufficient to repay associated borrowings on a timely basis, this seasonality could have a material adverse effect on our business. the company faces risks associated with vendors from whom the company's products are sourced. the products sold by the company are sourced from a variety of domestic and international vendors. foreign sourcing of many of the products sold is an important factor in the company's financial performance. all of the company's vendors must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting required vendor standards of conduct. the ability to find qualified vendors that meet company standards, and access products in a timely and efficient manners, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. these and other issues affecting the company's vendors, including merchandise quality and financial instability of suppliers, could adversely affect the company's financial performance. additionally, one vendor accounted for approximately 13% of the company's purchases in fiscal 2005. if this vendor were unable to meet the growing supply needs of the company, sales could be adversely affected. the company faces risks relating to its reliance on foreign suppliers. the company relies on foreign manufacturers for various products that are sold. in addition, many of the company's domestic suppliers purchase a portion of their products from foreign sources. the company relies on its long-term relationships with its suppliers but has no long-term contracts with such suppliers. the company's future success will depend in large measure upon its ability to maintain its existing supplier relationships or to develop new ones. this reliance increases the risk of inadequate and untimely supplies of various products due to local political, economic, social, or environmental conditions, transportation delays, restrictive actions by foreign governments, or changes in united states laws and regulations affecting imports or domestic distribution. as an importer, the company's business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulations, economic disruptions, delays in shipments, transportation capacity and costs, currency exchange rates and changes in political or economic conditions in countries from which the company purchases products. if any such factors were to render the conduct of business in particular countries undesirable or impractical or if additional united states quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions were imposed upon the importation of the company's products in the future, the company's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the company's failure to attract and retain qualified employees could adversely affect the company's financial performance. the ability to continue to expand operations depends on the company's ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified employees. the ability to meet labor needs generally while controlling wage and related labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. if the company is unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, or if costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, the company's financial performance could be adversely affected. the company may be subject to product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business. the company's business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business. the company maintains general liability insurance with a $250,000 deductible for each occurrence and a $5,000,000 aggregate retention. the company also maintains umbrella limits above the primary general and products liability cover. in many cases, the company has indemnification rights against the manufacturers of the products and their products liability insurance. the company's ability to recover under such insurance or indemnification arrangements is subject to the financial viability of the insurers and manufacturers and the specific allegations of a claim. the company cannot assure that its insurance coverage or the manufacturers' indemnity will be available or sufficient in any future cases brought against the company. if the company experiences difficulties with its management information systems, its financial performance may be adversely affected. the company depends on management information systems for many aspects of its business. the company will be materially adversely affected if its management information systems are disrupted or it is unable to improve, upgrade, maintain and expand systems, particularly in light of the contemplated continued significant increases in the number of the company's stores. 8 there is no assurance that the company's product innovations and marketing successes will continue. the company believes that its past performance has been based on, and future success will depend upon, in part, the ability to continue to improve existing product offerings through product innovation and to market new products. there is no assurance that the company will be successful in the introduction and marketing of any new products or product innovations, or that innovations to existing product offerings will be introduced in a timely manner to satisfy customer needs or expectations. failure to introduce new products successfully and in a timely manner could harm the company's ability to grow the business and could have a material adverse effect on results of the company's operations and financial condition. the company's success depends on its ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demand and preferences for products and supplies used in recreational farming and ranching. if the company misjudges the market, the company may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns. shortages of key items could also have a materially adverse impact on operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company complies with sfas nos. 133, 137, and 138 (collectively "sfas 133") pertaining to the accounting for derivatives and hedging activities. sfas 133 requires the company to recognize all derivative instruments in the balance sheet at fair value. sfas 133 impacted the accounting for the company's interest rate swap agreement, which was designated as a cash flow hedge. the company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily from its credit agreement. the credit agreement bears interest at either the bank's base rate (7.25% and 5.25% december 31, 2005 and december 25, 2004, respectively) or libor (4.39% and 2.42% at december 31, 2005 and december 25, 2004, respectively) plus an additional amount ranging from 0.75% to 1.50% per annum, adjusted quarterly, based on company performance (0.75% at both december 31, 2005 and december 25, 2004). the company is also required to pay (quarterly in arrears) a commitment fee ranging from 0.20% to 0.35% based on the daily average unused portion of the credit line. a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move (increase) in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would result in approximately $180,000 of additional annual interest expense and would not impact the fair market value of the long-term debt. 24"risk factors." forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and are based on our current expectations and projections about future events. we undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. ii part i item 1. business - ------- -------- overview tractor supply company is the largest operator of retail farm and ranch stores in the united states and is focused on supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers and ranchers and those who enjoy the rural lifestyle, as well as tradesmen and small businesses. our stores are located in towns outlying major metropolitan markets and in rural communities and offer the following comprehensive selection of merchandise: o equine, pet and animal products, including items necessary for their health, care, growth and containment o maintenance products for agricultural and rural use o hardware and tool products o seasonal products, including lawn and garden power equipment o truck, trailer and towing products, and o work/recreational clothing and footwear for the entire family. our tractor supply stores typically range in size from 15,500 square feet to 18,500 square feet of inside selling space and additional outside selling space. we are developing stores using one of five standard prototypes as well as existing building structures. our wholly-owned subsidiary, del's farm supply, llc ("del's"), operates 18 stores, primarily in the pacific northwest, that offer a wide selection of products (primarily in the equine, pet and animal category) tailored to those who enjoy the rural lifestyle. del's stores currently range in size from approximately 1,500 to 7,000 square feet of inside selling space with additional outside selling space. tractor supply company has one reportable industry segment - the operation of farm and ranch retail stores. at december 30, 2006, we operated 676 retail farm and ranch stores in 37 states and one canadian province. seasonality and weather our business is highly seasonal. historically, our sales and profits have been the highest in the second and fourth fiscal quarters of each year due to the sale of seasonal products. unseasonable weather, excessive rain, drought, and early or late frosts may also affect our sales. we believe, however, that the impact of severe weather conditions is somewhat mitigated by the geographic dispersion of our stores. we experience our highest inventory and accounts payable levels during the first fiscal quarter each year for purchases of seasonal products in anticipation of the spring selling season and again during the third fiscal quarter in anticipation of the winter selling season. business strategy we believe our sales and earnings growth is a result of focused execution of our business strategy, which includes the following key components: market niche we have identified a specialized market niche: supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers and ranchers and those who enjoy the rural lifestyle (which we refer to as the "out here" lifestyle), as well as tradesmen and small businesses. by focusing our product mix on these core customers, we believe we are differentiated from general merchandise, home center and other specialty retailers. customer service we are committed to providing our customers a high level of in-store service through our motivated, well-trained store employees. we believe the ability of our store employees to provide friendly, responsive and seasoned advice helps to promote strong customer loyalty and repeat shopping. 1 as such, we seek to provide our store employees with decision-making authority, product knowledge and training to enable them to meet our customers' needs. we endeavor to staff our stores with courteous, highly motivated employees and devote considerable resources to training store employees, often in cooperation with our vendors. our training programs include (i) a full management training program which covers all aspects of our operations, (ii) product knowledge modules produced in conjunction with key vendors, (iii) frequent management skills training classes, (iv) semi-annual store managers meetings with vendor product presentations, (v) vendor sponsored in-store training programs and (vi) ongoing product information updates from our management headquarters, the store support center. we seek to hire and train store employees with farming and ranching backgrounds, with particular emphasis on general maintenance, equine and welding. we offer proprietary, private label credit cards for individual retail and business customers. in addition, we accept cash, checks, debit cards, visa, mastercard and discover credit cards and gift cards. store environment our stores are designed and managed to make shopping an enjoyable experience and to maximize sales and operating efficiencies. stores utilize several layouts, designed to provide an open environment, optimal product placement and visual display locations. in addition, these layouts allow for departmental space to be easily reallocated and visual displays to be easily changed for seasonal products and promotions. display and product placement information is sent to stores monthly to ensure quality and uniformity among the stores. informative signs are located throughout each store to assist customers with purchasing decisions and merchandise location by comparison of "good, better, best" qualities, clear pricing and useful information regarding product benefits and suggestions for appropriate accessories. the general uniformity of our store layouts and visual displays afford our customers a feeling of familiarity and enhances the shopping experience. to further enhance the shopping experience, all of our store employees wear highly visible red vests, aprons or smocks and nametags, and our customer service and checkout counters are conveniently located. merchandising we offer a differentiated assortment of products for our target customers. our broad product assortment is tailored to meet the regional and geographic needs of our markets, as well as the physical store size. our full line of product offerings is supported by a strong in-stock inventory position with an average of 13,500 to 15,000 unique products per store. no one product accounted for more than 10% of our sales during 2006. our stores carry a wide selection of high quality, nationally recognized, name brand merchandise. we also market a growing list of products under our "private-label programs," i.e. products manufactured by a number of vendors at our direction and specifically for our sole benefit. the trademarks in the private label brand names are owned by us with the exception of a very limited number of brands over which we have sole control but have not yet opted to own. our private label brands include: o huskee (outdoor power equipment) o traveller (truck/automotive products) o retriever and paws `n claws (pet foods) o dumor and producers pride (livestock feed) o c.e. schmidt (apparel and footwear) o groundworks (lawn and garden supplies) o royal wing (bird feeding supplies) o milepost (equine products) o red shed (gifts and collectibles) o masterhand (tools and tool chests) 2 additionally, we control brands which we market. these control brands include bit & bridle (clothing), morgan creek ("lifestyle clothing") and farm hand (air compressors). we believe that the availability of top quality private label products at great prices provides superior value for our customers, a strategic advantage for us, and positions us as a "destination" store. the following chart indicates the average percentages of sales represented by each of our major product categories during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. percent of sales ---------------------- product category 2006 2005 2004 ---------------- ---- ---- ---- equine, pet and animal ................. 33% 31% 32% seasonal products ...................... 23 24 23 hardware and tools ..................... 16 18 18 truck/trailer/tow/lube ................. 12 12 12 clothing and footwear .................. 9 9 8 maintenance products for agriculture and rural use ............................ 7 6 7 --- --- --- 100% 100% 100% === === === purchasing and distribution we offer a differentiated assortment of products for those seeking to enjoy the "out here" lifestyle. our business is not dependent upon any one vendor or particular group of vendors. we purchase our products from a core group of approximately 1,000 vendors, with no one vendor representing more than 10% of our purchases during fiscal 2006. approximately 170 vendors accounted for approximately 80% of our purchases during fiscal 2006. we have not experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining satisfactory alternative sources of supply for our products and we believe that adequate sources of supply exist at substantially similar costs for substantially all of our products. we have no material long-term contractual commitments with any of our vendors. we maintain a dedicated supply chain management team to focus exclusively on all replenishment and forecasting functions. this centralized direction permits our buying teams to focus more strategic attention toward vendor line reviews, assortment planning and testing of new products and programs. through the combined efforts of these teams, we expect to improve overall inventory productivity and in-stock position. over 97% of our purchase orders are transmitted through an electronic data interchange ("edi") system, and approximately 88% of merchandise vendor invoices are transmitted through edi. we are expanding the percentage of vendors who electronically transmit invoices and increasing the amount of sales history transmitted. we own and operate a 775,000 square foot distribution center in pendleton, indiana, a 362,000 square foot distribution center in waco, texas, a 482,000 square foot distribution center in hagerstown, maryland, and a 425,000 square foot facility in waverly, nebraska, and lease a 410,000 square foot distribution center in braselton, georgia and a 71,000 square foot del's facility in lakewood, washington. we believe our overall distribution capacity will support our growth up to an estimated 950 stores. in fiscal 2006, we received approximately 82% of our merchandise through these distribution facilities, with the balance delivered directly to our stores by our vendors. we manage our inbound and outbound transportation activity in-house through the use of a web-based transportation management system. we outsource the management of our dedicated fleets to two third-party logistics providers and utilize several common carriers as required. the third-party logistics providers are responsible for providing drivers and tractors dedicated to transporting merchandise for us. we endeavor to control our transportation costs through the monitoring of transportation routes, scheduling of deliveries, backhauls and optimal utilization of the dedicated fleet of trucks and trailers. 3 marketing we utilize an "everyday low prices" strategy to consistently offer our products at competitive prices complimented by promotions to enhance peak selling seasons. we regularly monitor prices at competing stores and adjust our prices as we deem appropriate. we believe that by avoiding a "sale"-oriented marketing strategy, we are attracting customers on a regular basis rather than only in response to promotional sales. to generate store traffic and position ourselves as a destination store, we promote broad selections of merchandise, primarily advertised at our regular everyday low price, with printed color circulars. we also run periodic special events promoted through circulars and direct mail advertising. we enhance our print marketing programs through the expanded use of national cable and local network television. due to the geographic dispersion of our stores, the use of national cable advertising is generally more cost-effective and additionally serves to promote our stores prior to entering a new market. due to the relatively small size of our stores, increased traffic in the store ensures increased exposure to most of our products. our vendors are committed to helping us promote our brand and position ourselves as a destination store. our vendors provide assistance with product presentation and rack design, brochures, point-of-purchase materials for customers' education and product education for our employees. we also receive funding through contributions and incentives on purchases to promote new and relocated stores and earn rebates from many vendors on product purchases based on volume. competition we operate in a very competitive market. the principal competitive factors include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation and customer service. we compete with general merchandise, home center retailers and other specialty and discount retailers, as well as independently owned retail farm and ranch stores, numerous privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives. some of these competitors are units of national or regional chains and have substantially greater resources and financial capacities than we do. however, we believe we have successfully differentiated ourselves from these entities by focusing on our specialized market niche. management and employees as of december 30, 2006, we employed approximately 5,500 full-time and approximately 4,300 part-time employees. we also employ additional part-time employees during peak periods. we are not party to any collective bargaining agreements. our district managers, store managers and other distribution and support personnel have contributed significantly to our performance. we have an internal advisory board comprised of store managers. this group brings a grassroots perspective to operational initiatives and generates chain-wide endorsement of proposed "best-practice" solutions. we have implemented numerous best practice teams (comprised of employees from all areas of our operations) to evaluate our key operations and recommend process changes that will both improve efficiency and strengthen controls. our management encourages the participation of all employees in decision-making, regularly solicits input and suggestions from our employees and responds to the suggestions. all of our employees participate in one of various incentive programs, which provide the opportunity to receive additional compensation based upon team and/or company performance. we also provide our employees the opportunity to participate in an employee stock purchase plan and a 401(k) retirement plan (we contribute to the 401(k) plan solely through a cash match). additionally, we share in the cost of health insurance provided to our employees, and employees receive a discount on merchandise purchased at our stores. 4 we encourage a "promote from within" environment when internal resources permit. we also provide internal leadership development programs designed to mentor our high potential employees for continued progress and believe we have satisfactory relationships with our employees. all of our executive officers have over 25 years of business experience. our district managers and store managers have an average length of service of approximately five years. management believes internal promotions, coupled with the hiring of individuals with previous retail experience, will provide the management structure necessary to support our planned store growth. management information and control systems we have invested considerable resources in our management information and control systems to ensure superior customer service, manage the purchase and distribution of our merchandise and improve our operating efficiencies. our management information and control systems include a point-of-sale system, a supply chain management and replenishment system, a radio frequency picking system in the distribution centers, a vendor purchase order control system and a merchandise presentation system. these systems are integrated and track merchandise from initial order through ultimate sale. all data from these systems are integrated with our financial systems. we continue to evaluate and improve the functionality of our systems to maximize their effectiveness. such efforts include an ongoing evaluation of the optimal software configuration (including system enhancements and upgrades) as well as the adequacy of the underlying hardware components. these efforts are directed toward constantly improving the overall business processes and achieving the most efficient and effective use of the systems to manage our operations. growth strategy our current and long-term growth strategy is to (1) expand geographic market presence through opening new retail stores, (2) enhance financial performance through same-store sales increases, achieved through aggressive merchandising programs with an "everyday low prices" philosophy and supported by strong customer service, (3) enhance product margin through assortment management, vendor management, sourcing and optimization of transportation and distribution costs, (4) leverage operating costs, especially occupancy, advertising and distribution, and (5) expand through selective acquisition, as such opportunities arise, to enhance penetration into new and existing markets as a complimentary strategy to organic growth. we have experienced considerable sales growth over the last five years, with a compounded annual growth rate of approximately 22.8%. we plan to continue our growth strategy, which anticipates an annual increase in our unit count of approximately 13%. this growth has expanded our market presence to 676 retail farm and ranch stores in 37 states and one canadian province. we believe this unit count increase, along with strategic relocations of small, older stores to full-size formats in areas of greater retail opportunity, will contribute substantially to our future growth. through store relocations, we are able to keep much of our existing loyal customer base but expand our overall reach to new customers, thereby growing the business. we have relocated 87 stores since 2001. the acquisition of del's enabled us to establish an initial presence in the pacific northwest, primarily in washington, hawaii and one store in british columbia. we believe we have developed a proven method for selecting store sites and have identified over 750 potential additional markets for new tractor supply stores (excluding del's) in the united states. in addition, we continue to identify opportunities to relocate existing stores. we expect to open approximately 85 to 90 stores in fiscal 2007, along with approximately 12 store relocations. the average estimated cash required to open a new leased store in fiscal 2006 was approximately $800,000 to $1,400,000, the majority of which was for initial acquisition of inventory and capital expenditures (principally leasehold improvements, fixtures and equipment), and approximately $85,000 of which was for pre-opening costs. the cash required to complete a store relocation averaged approximately $500,000 in fiscal 2006. however, relocation costs can vary depending on whether we are responsible for any renovation or remodeling costs. additional information we file reports with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"), including annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and other reports as required. the public may read and 5 copy any materials the company files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., nw, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. we are an electronic filer and the sec maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains the reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically. we make available free of charge through our internet website, www.mytscstore.com, our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report. our code of ethics, which is applicable to all of our employees, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and controller, along with our corporate governance guidelines and the charters of our audit, compensation, corporate governance and nominating committees of our board of directors is posted on our website. item 1a. risk factors - -------- our business faces many risks. these risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this form 10-k. general economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance. higher interest rates, fuel and other energy costs, higher labor and healthcare costs, and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the merchandise we offer. additionally, changes in the mix of products sold to a mix with a lower overall gross margin or other increased cost of sales, along with slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory, could adversely affect our financial performance. high levels of unemployment, inflation, changes in tax and other laws and other adverse developments in the economy may also adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise, adversely affect gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results. inflationary pressures, including rising energy prices, may adversely affect our financial performance. although we cannot determine the full effect of inflation on our operations, we believe our sales and results of operations have been affected by inflation. we are subject to market risk with respect to the pricing of certain products and services, which include, among other items, steel, grain, petroleum, corn, soybean and other commodities as well as transportation services. moreover, in the last few years, energy prices have risen dramatically, which has resulted in increased fuel costs for our business and utility costs for our stores. we have been successful in reducing or mitigating the effects of inflation, principally through selective buying from the most competitive vendors and by increasing retail prices. however, there is no assurance that we will be successful in reducing or mitigating the effect of inflation in the future. there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to increase sales at our existing stores. we experience fluctuations in our same-store sales, which are defined as stores which have completed twelve months of sales, excluding relocated stores. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales at our existing stores. various factors affect same-store sales, including the general retail sales environment, our ability to efficiently source and distribute products, changes in our merchandise mix, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. these factors may cause our same-store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. past same-store sales are not necessarily an indication of future results, and there can be no assurance that our same-store sales will not decrease in the future. any failure to meet the same-store sales expectations of investors and security analysts in one or more future periods could adversely affect our results of operations and result in a reduction in the market price of our common stock. our failure to effectively manage growth could impair our business. even if we are able to implement, to a significant degree, our key business strategy of expanding our store base, we may experience managerial or operational problems, which may prevent any significant increase in profitability or 6 negatively impact our cash flow. to manage our planned expansion, we must ensure the continuing adequacy of our existing systems, controls and procedures, including product distribution facilities, store management, financial controls and information systems. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our planned expansion, that the new stores will be effectively integrated into our existing operations or that such stores will be profitable. failure to open new stores in the manner currently contemplated could adversely affect our financial performance. an integral part of our key business strategy includes the expansion of our base of stores by opening new stores. if we are unable to implement this strategy, our ability to increase our sales, profitability, and cash flow could be impaired significantly. to the extent that we are unable to open new stores in the manner we anticipate (due to unforeseen delays in construction or site approval), our sales growth would be impaired. any failure to meet the growth expectations of investors and security analysts in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our stock. competition in our industry may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy and adversely affect our operations. we operate in a very competitive market. the principal competitive factors include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service. we believe we have successfully differentiated ourselves from general merchandise, home center retailers and other specialty and discount retailers by focusing on our specialized market niche. however, we do face competition from these entities, as well as competition from independently-owned retail farm and ranch stores, several privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives. some of our competitors are units of national or regional chains that have substantially greater financial and other resources. weather conditions may have a significant impact on our financial results. historically, weather conditions have had a significant impact on our operating results. weather conditions affect the demand for, and in some cases the supply of, products, which in turn has an impact on prices. in recent years, we have experienced unusually severe weather conditions, including ice storms, floods and wind damage, hurricanes and a summer dearth of water and pasture in some states. weather conditions also directly affect the demand for petroleum products, particularly during the winter heating season. accordingly, the weather can have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. there are certain risks associated with the seasonal nature of our business. our working capital needs and borrowings generally peak in our first fiscal quarter because lower sales are generated while expenses are incurred in preparation for the spring selling season. if cash on hand and borrowings under existing credit facilities are ever insufficient to meet the seasonal needs or if cash flow generated during the spring and summer is insufficient to repay associated borrowings on a timely basis, this seasonality could have a material adverse effect on our business. we face risks associated with vendors from whom our products are sourced. the products we sell are sourced from a variety of domestic and international vendors. foreign sourcing of many of the products sold is an important factor in our financial performance. all of our vendors must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting required vendor standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified vendors that meet our standards, and access products in a timely and efficient manner are significant challenges, especially with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. these and other issues affecting our vendors, including merchandise quality and financial instability of suppliers, could adversely affect our financial performance. we face risks relating to our reliance on foreign suppliers. we rely on foreign manufacturers for various products that we sell. in addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase a portion of their products from foreign sources. we rely on long-term relationships with our suppliers but have no long-term contracts with such suppliers. our future success will depend in large measure upon our ability to maintain our existing supplier relationships or to develop new ones. this reliance increases the risk of inadequate and untimely supplies of various products due to local political, economic, social, or environmental conditions, transportation delays, restrictive actions by foreign governments, or changes in united states laws and regulations affecting imports or domestic distribution. as an importer, our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulations, economic disruptions, delays in shipments, transportation capacity and costs, currency exchange rates and changes in political or economic conditions in countries from which we purchase products. if any such factors were to render the conduct of business in particular countries 7 undesirable or impractical or if additional united states quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions were imposed upon the importation of our products in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our failure to attract and retain qualified employees could adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue expanding operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified employees. our ability to meet labor needs generally while controlling wage and related labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. if we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or if costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be adversely affected. we may be subject to product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business. our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business. we maintain general liability insurance with a $250,000 deductible for each occurrence and a $6,000,000 aggregate retention. we also maintain umbrella limits above the primary general and products liability cover. in many cases, we have indemnification rights against the manufacturers of the products and their products liability insurance. our ability to recover under such insurance or indemnification arrangements is subject to the financial viability of the insurers and manufacturers and the specific allegations of a claim. we cannot assure that our insurance coverage or the manufacturers' indemnity will be available or sufficient in any claims brought against us. if we experience difficulties with our management information systems, our financial performance may be adversely affected. we depend on management information systems for many aspects of our business. we could be materially adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain and expand systems, particularly in light of the contemplated continued significant increases in the number of our stores. there is no assurance that our product innovations and marketing successes will continue. we believe our past performance has been based on, and future success will depend upon, in part, the ability to continue to improve existing product offerings through product innovation and to market new products. there is no assurance that we will be successful in the introduction and marketing of any new products or product innovations, or that innovations to existing product offerings will be introduced in a timely manner to satisfy our customers' needs or expectations. failure to introduce new products successfully and in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow the business and could have a material adverse effect on results of our operations and financial condition. additionally, our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demand and preferences for products and supplies used in recreational farming and ranching. if we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns. shortages of key items could also have a materially adverse impact on operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk - -------- ---------------------------------------------------------- we are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily from the credit agreement. the credit agreement bears interest at either the bank's base rate (8.25% and 7.25% december 30, 2006 and december 31, 2005, respectively) or libor (5.32% and 4.39% at december 30, 2006 and december 31, 2005, respectively) plus an additional amount ranging from 0.75% to 1.50% per annum, adjusted quarterly, based on our performance (0.75% at both december 30, 2006 and december 31, 2005). we are also required to pay (quarterly in arrears) a commitment fee ranging from 0.20% to 0.35% based on the daily average unused portion of the credit line. a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move (increase) in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would result in approximately $378,000 of additional annual interest expense and would not impact the fair market value of the long-term debt. 24