risk factors 12 risk factors in addition to the other information provided in this form 10-k, you should carefully consider the risks described in this section. the risks described below are not the only risks that could adversely affect our business; other risks currently deemed immaterial or additional risks not currently known to us could also adversely affect us. these and other factors could have a material adverse effect on the value of your investment in our securities, meaning that you could lose all or part of your investment. note that this section includes forward-looking statements and future expectations as of the date of this form 10-k. this discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii of this form 10-k. our business performance might not be sufficient for us to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide publicly. we provide full-year financial guidance to the public based upon our assumptions regarding our expected financial performance. for example, we provide assumptions regarding our ability to grow revenue and to achieve our profitability targets. while we believe that our annual financial guidance provides investors and analysts with insight to our view of the company's future performance, such financial guidance is based on assumptions that may not always prove to be accurate and may vary from actual results. if we fail to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide, or if we find it necessary to revise such guidance during the year, the market value of our common shares could be adversely affected. we operate in competitive markets, which may adversely affect our market share and financial results. while we do not believe that we have a direct competitor across all of our workflows and industry solutions, we face competition in specific industries and with respect to specific offerings, including by smaller competitors which may be able to adopt new or emerging technologies to address customer requirements more quickly than we can. we may also face competition from organizations and businesses that have not traditionally competed with us but that could adapt their products and services or utilize significant financial and information-gathering resources, recognized brands, or technological expertise to begin competing with us. we believe that competitors are continuously enhancing their products and services, developing new products and services, investing in technology and acquiring new businesses to better serve the needs of their existing customers and to attract new customers. increased competition could require us to make additional capital investments. some of our competitors may also choose to sell products competitive with ours at lower prices, which may require us to reduce the prices of our offerings. an increase in our capital investments or price reductions by our competitors could negatively impact our margins and results of operations. achieving our growth and profitability objectives may prove unsuccessful. we seek to achieve our growth objectives by enhancing our offerings to meet the needs of our customers through organic development, including by delivering integrated workflow platforms, cross-selling our products across our existing customer 12 table of contents base and acquiring new customers, entering into strategic partnerships, acquisitions, and by implementing operational efficiency initiatives. if we are unable to successfully execute on our strategies to achieve our growth objectives or drive operational efficiencies, or if we experience higher than expected operating costs that cannot be adjusted accordingly, our growth and profitability rates could be adversely affected. an additional factor that may adversely affect our growth rates is continued global economic uncertainty, particularly in our energy and financial end markets. our resources and financial markets segments in particular may continue to be adversely affected by industry dynamics, including decisions on the part of our customers to defer capital spending in uncertain economic environments. if we are unable to develop successful new products and services or adapt to rapidly changing technology, our business could suffer serious harm. the information services industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing regulatory requirements. our growth and success depend upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to keep pace with such changes and developments and to meet changing customer needs. the process of developing our products and services is complex and may become increasingly complex and expensive in the future due to the introduction of new platforms, operating systems and technologies. current areas of significant technological change include mobility, cloud-based computing, blockchain and the processing and analyzing of large amounts of data. we may find it difficult or costly to update our services and software and to develop new products and services quickly enough to work effectively with new or changed technologies and regulations, to keep the pace with evolving industry standards or to meet our customers' needs. if we are unable to develop new products or services, or to successfully enhance or update existing products and services, we may not be able to grow our business as quickly as we anticipate. we could experience system failures or capacity constraints that could negatively impact our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex systems, relying on people, processes, and technology to function effectively. most of our products and services are delivered electronically, and our customers rely on our ability to process and deliver substantial quantities of information and other services on computer-based networks. some elements of these systems have been outsourced to third-party providers, including critical data inputs received from third-party suppliers. some of our systems have been consolidated for the purpose of enhancing scalability and efficiency, which increases our dependency on a smaller number of systems. any failure of, or significant interruption, delay or disruption to, or security breaches affecting, our systems could result in: disruption to our operations; significant expense to repair, replace or remediate systems, equipment or facilities; a loss of customers; legal or regulatory claims, proceedings or fines; damage to our reputation; and harm to our business. system interruption, failures or security breaches could result from a wide variety of causes, including: human error, natural disasters, infrastructure or network failures (including failures at third-party data centers), disruptions to the internet, increased government regulation straining systems, malicious attacks or cyber incidents such as unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential and/or personal customer information), account takeovers, computer viruses or other malicious code, and the loss or failure of systems over which we have no control. in addition, significant growth of our customer base or increases in the number of products or services or in the speed at which we are required to provide products and services may also strain our systems in the future. we may also face significant increases in our use of power and data storage and may experience a shortage of capacity and increased costs associated with such usage. any of the above factors could individually or in the aggregate adversely affect our business, and our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all failures, interruptions, delays, disruptions or security breaches. design defects, errors, failures or delays associated with our products or services could negatively impact our business. despite testing, software, products and services that we develop, license or distribute may contain errors or defects when first released or when major new updates or enhancements are released that cause the product or service to operate incorrectly or less effectively. many of our products and services also rely on data and services provided by third-party providers over which we have no control and may be provided to us with defects, errors or failures. we may also experience delays while developing and introducing new products and services for various reasons, such as difficulties in licensing data inputs or adapting to particular operating environments. defects, errors or delays in our products or services that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could result in rejection or delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, a lower rate of license renewals or upgrades, diversion of development resources, product liability claims or regulatory actions, or increases in service and support costs. we may also need to expend significant capital resources to eliminate or work around defects, errors, failures or delays. in each of these ways, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. 13 table of contents we depend on externally obtained content and services to support our offerings, and the inability to continue to obtain access could prove harmful to our business. we obtain data from a wide variety of external sources that we transform into critical information and analytics and use to create integrated solutions for our customers. many of our offerings include content and information that is either purchased or licensed from third parties, or obtained using independent contractors. in addition, we often rely on third-party dealers to sell or distribute some of our offerings, such as in locations where we do not maintain a sales office or sales teams or methods of distribution we do not have direct access to. for instance, our industry standards offerings that are part of our product design workflow rely on information licensed from standards developing organizations, and many of our financial institution customers provide us with data which is a critical input for many of our financial services offerings. we believe that the content licensed from many of these third parties cannot be obtained from alternate sources on favorable terms, if at all. our license agreements with these third parties are often nonexclusive and many are terminable on less than one year's notice. in addition, many of these third parties compete with one another and with us, including by providing data to our competitors, which may cause them to reduce their willingness to supply data and content that are important to our products and services. we could also become subject to legislative, regulatory, judicial or contractual restrictions on the use of data, such as if such data is not collected by the third parties in a way which allows us to process the data or use it legally. we are also limited in our ability to monitor and direct the activities of our independent contractors, but if any actions or business practices of these individuals or entities violate our policies or procedures or are otherwise deemed inappropriate or illegal, we could lose access to the data they collect, as well as be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions, or reputational damage. if we lose access to, or are restricted in receiving, a significant number of data sources and cannot replace the data through alternative sources or we are unable to obtain information licensed to us consistently or at cost-effective prices, specific products, services and customer solutions may be impacted and our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. our relationships with third-party service providers may not be successful or may change, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we have commercial relationships with third-party service providers whose capabilities complement our own, for integral services, software and technologies. many of our products and services are developed using third-party service providers' data or services, or are made available to our customers or are integrated for our customers' use through integral infrastructure, information and technology solutions provided by such third-party service providers. for example, we outsource certain data hosting functions, as well as certain functions involving our data transformation process, to business partners who we believe offer us deep expertise in these areas, as well as scalability and cost effective services. in some cases, these providers are also our competitors or may in the future become our competitors as we expand our product and service offerings, which could impact our relationships. the priorities and objectives of these providers may differ from ours, which may make us vulnerable to changes or terminations of our commercial relationships and could reduce our access over time to information and technology. we have little control over these third-party providers, which increases our vulnerability to errors, failures, interruptions or disruptions or problems with their services or technologies. we also face risks that one or more service providers may perform work that deviates from our standards or that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. any errors, failures to perform, interruptions, delays or terminations of service experienced in connection with these third-party providers, or if we do not obtain the expected benefits from our relationships with third-party service providers, we may be less competitive, our products and services may be negatively affected, and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. fraudulent or unpermitted data access and other security or privacy breaches may negatively impact our business and harm our reputation. many of our products and services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data. security breaches in our facilities, computer networks, and databases may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. our systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar disruptive problems. third-party contractors and service providers also may experience security or privacy breaches involving the storage, transmission and distribution of proprietary information, including products and services provided to third parties under embargo prior to official release by us. cybersecurity threats are evolving and include malicious 14 table of contents software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, information security breaches, or employee or contractor error or malfeasance. such threats could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release or destruction of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. we rely on a system of internal processes and software controls along with policies, procedures and training to protect the confidentiality of information. if users gain improper access to our facilities, systems or networks, or those of our contractors or service providers, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify information included in our products and services or confidential or sensitive customer information that is stored or transmitted on such systems and networks. any misappropriation and/or misuse of our information, whether inadvertent or deliberate, could result in us, among other things, being in breach of the terms of our agreements and of certain data protection and related legislation, including regulations relating to the privacy of personal or payment card information. similarly, if any embargoed data is inadvertently disclosed or deliberately misused prior to our authorization, customers and financial markets could be negatively affected, and any resulting need to change our procedures around the provision of embargoed data to any third parties may diminish the value of such offerings. a security or privacy breach may affect us in the following ways: deterring customers from using our products or services; deterring data suppliers from supplying data to us; harming our reputation; exposing us to liability; disclosing valuable trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information; increasing expenses to correct problems caused by the breach and to prevent future breaches of a similar nature; affecting our ability to meet customers' expectations; or causing inquiry or penalization from governmental authorities. incidents in which customer data has been fraudulently or improperly acquired or viewed, or any other security or privacy breaches, may occur and could go undetected. we have experienced security breaches, unauthorized disclosures and cybersecurity attacks, as have many of our customers, contractors and service providers. while prior cybersecurity attacks have not had a material adverse effect on our financial results, we have taken and are taking reasonable steps to prevent future events, including implementation of system security measures, information back-up and disaster recovery processes. however, these steps may not be effective and there can be no assurance that any such steps can be effective against all possible risks. some of the critical information we use in our offerings is publicly available in raw form at little or no cost. the internet, widespread availability of sophisticated search engines, pervasive wireless data delivery and public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information and solutions have simplified the process of locating, gathering, and disseminating data, potentially diminishing the perceived value of our offerings. while we believe our offerings are distinguished by such factors as currency, accuracy and completeness, and our analysis and other added value, our customers could choose to obtain the information and solutions they need from public, regulatory, governmental or other sources. to the extent that customers become more self-sufficient, demand for our offerings may be reduced, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. our use of open source software could result in litigation or impose unanticipated restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services. we use open source software in our technology, most often as small components within a larger product or service. open source code is also contained in some third-party software we rely on. the terms of many open source licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. or other courts, and these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services, license the software on unfavorable terms, require us to re-engineer our products and services or take other remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we could also be subject to suits by parties claiming breach of the terms of licenses, which could be costly for us to defend. our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. our ability to attract and retain customers is affected by external perceptions of our brand and reputation. we enter into redistribution arrangements that allow other firms to represent certain of our products and services. reputational damage from 15 table of contents negative perceptions or publicity could damage our reputation with customers, prospects, and the public generally. although we monitor developments for areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. cost-cutting pressures and consolidation in our customer markets could lower demand for our products and services. our customers are focused on controlling or reducing spending as a result of the continued financial challenges and market uncertainty many of them face. customers within the financial services, shipping and energy industries in particular strive to reduce their operating costs, and may use strategies that result in a reduction in their spending on our products and service, such as by consolidating their spending with fewer or lower cost vendors or by internally developing products, services and functionality. in addition, mergers or consolidations among our customers could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers, which could cause them to discontinue or reduce their use of our products and services. all such developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. declining activity levels in our core end markets, or weak or declining financial performance of companies in our end markets, could lower demand for certain of our products and services. many of our products and services are dependent upon the robustness of the core end markets in which we operate, as well as the financial health of the participants in those markets and the general economy. in addition, a proportion of our revenue in our financial services segment is variable and depends upon transaction volumes, investment levels, or the number of positions we value. unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions or lower activity levels in the end markets in which we operate could result in cancellations, reductions, or delays for our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. some of our products and services typically face long selling cycles to secure new contracts, which require significant resource commitments and result in long lead times before we receive revenue. for certain new products and services, and especially for complex products and services, we often face long selling cycles to secure new contracts and customers and there can be a long preparation period before we commence providing products and services. for instance, some of our financial markets products and services can require active engagement with potential customers and can take 12 months or more to reach deal closure. some products' success is also dependent on building a network of users, and may not be profitable while such a network is developing. we can incur significant business development expenses during the selling cycle and we may not succeed in winning a new customer's business, in which case we receive no revenue and may receive no reimbursement for such expenses. selling cycle periods have historically lengthened and could lengthen further, causing us to incur even higher business development expenses with no guarantee of winning a new customer's business. even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new customer, we may not be successful in obtaining contractual commitments after the selling cycle or in maintaining contractual commitments after the implementation cycle, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. the loss of, or the inability to attract and retain, key personnel could impair our future success. our future success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our employees, including our experts in research and analysis and other areas, as well as colleagues in sales, marketing, product development, critical operational roles, and management, including our executive officers. we do not carry any key person insurance policies that could offset potential loss of service under applicable circumstances. we must maintain our ability to attract, motivate, compensate and retain highly qualified colleagues in order to support our customers and achieve business results. the loss of the services of key personnel and our inability to recruit effective replacements or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain highly qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. if we are unable to consistently renew and enter into new subscriptions for our offerings, our results could weaken. the majority of our revenue is recurring, typically based on subscription agreement to our offerings. in 2016, approximately 82 percent of our revenues were recurring fixed and recurring variable revenues. our operating results depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high renewal rates on our existing subscription base and to enter into new subscription arrangements at acceptable prices and other commercially acceptable terms. failure to meet one or more of these subscription objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 16 table of contents changes in the legislative, regulatory, and commercial environments in which we operate may adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, use, and publish data, subject us to increased regulation of our products and services or prevent us from offering certain products or service, decrease demand for our products and services and impact our financial results. our customers rely on many of our products and services to meet their operational, regulatory or compliance needs. all our financial industry customers, in particular, operate within a highly regulated environment and must comply with governmental and quasi-governmental legislation, regulations, directives and standards. in addition, certain types of information we collect, compile, use, and publish, including offerings in our ihs markit automotive and carfax businesses, are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. over the past few years, the united states, the european union and other jurisdictions have introduced new legislation and regulation of financial markets, such as the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ) in the united states and the european market infrastructure regulation ( emir ), the new markets in financial instruments directive ( mifid ii ) and the markets in financial instruments regulation ( mifir ) in the european union. in addition, there is increasing focus among certain advocates and government regulators regarding marketing and privacy matters, particularly as they relate to individual privacy interests. these concerns may result in new or amended laws and regulations, including with respect to the collection, compilation, use, and publication of information and consumer privacy. similarly, new rules promulgated by the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ), u.s. commodity futures trading commission (the cftc ) and the international organization of securities commissions ( iosco ) and other governmental and quasi-governmental organizations may also affect demand, structure and regulation of the products and services we offer to the financial services industry, such as benchmark administration, intermediating and clearing services, and offerings in which we function as a third-party service provider. it is also possible that we could be prohibited or constrained from collecting or disseminating certain types of data or from providing certain products or services. uncertainty caused by political change in the united states and european union (particularly brexit) heightens regulatory uncertainty in these areas. new legislation, or a significant change in rules, regulations, directives or standards could result in some of our products and services becoming obsolete or prohibited, reduce demand for our products and services, increase expenses as we modify our products and services to comply with new requirements and retain relevancy, impose limitations on our operations, and increase compliance or litigation expense, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be exposed to litigation related to content we make available to customers and we may face legal liability or damage to our reputation if our customers are not satisfied with our offerings or if our offerings are misused. we are significantly dependent on data, technologies and business methods, as well as the intellectual property rights related to them, both with respect to licensing and delivering intellectual property to our customers and obtaining intellectual property from our suppliers. we may face potential liability for, among other things, breach of contract, defamation, libel, fraud or negligence, with respect to the use of our offerings by our customers, particularly if the information in our offerings was incorrect for any reason, or if it were misused or used inappropriately. in addition, companies in our industry have increasingly pursued patent and other intellectual property protection for their data, technologies and business methods. as we do not actively monitor third-party intellectual property, if any of our data, technologies or business methods are covered or become covered by third-party intellectual property protection and used without license or if we misuse data, technologies or business methods outside the terms of our licenses, we may be subject to claims or threats of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of intellectual property rights, or have the use of our data, technologies and business methods otherwise challenged. we have also in the past been, and may in the future be, called upon to defend partners, customers, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our agreements. responding to such claims or threats, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time and resources, result in costly or unfavorable litigation or settlements that could exceed the limits of applicable insurance coverage, delay operations of our business, require redesign of our products and services, or require new royalty and licensing agreements. it could also damage our reputation for any reason which could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, employees, and information suppliers. any such factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information. our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, processes, methodologies and information. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws and nondisclosure, license, assignment and confidentiality arrangements to establish, maintain and protect our proprietary rights as well as the intellectual 17 table of contents property rights of third parties whose content we license. however, we cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, are adequate to prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation, or theft of our intellectual property. intellectual property laws in various jurisdictions in which we operate are also subject to change at any time and could further restrict our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. in particular, a portion of our revenues are derived from jurisdictions where adequately protecting intellectual property rights may prove more challenging or impossible. we may also not be able to detect unauthorized uses or take timely and effective steps to remedy unauthorized conduct. to prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation or other proceedings and we may not ultimately prevail. any failure to establish, maintain or protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our compliance and risk management methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. our ability to comply with applicable complex and changing laws and rules is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, surveillance, audit and reporting systems, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. while we have policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks, we cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will always be effective or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed. in addition, some of our risk management methods depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. that information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. in case of non-compliance or alleged non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to investigations and proceedings that may be very expensive to defend and may result in substantial penalties or civil lawsuits, including by customers, for damages which can be significant. any of these outcomes would adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. further, the implementation of new legislation or regulations, or changes in or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies, could require us to incur significant compliance costs and impede our ability to operate, expand and enhance our products and services as necessary to remain competitive and grow our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the u.k. electorate voted in favor of a u.k. exit from the e.u. in a referendum, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. the u.k. government held an in-or-out referendum on the united kingdom's membership of the european union in june 2016, which resulted in the electorate voting in favor of a u.k. exit from the e.u. (brexit). a process of negotiation will now determine the future terms of the united kingdom's relationship with the european union. we are headquartered and tax domiciled in the uk and conduct business in europe primarily through our u.k. subsidiaries. depending on the terms of brexit, we could face new regulatory costs and challenges. for instance, the united kingdom could lose access to the single e.u. market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the european union on behalf of its members, and we may be required to move certain operations to other european union members to maintain such access. a decline in trade could affect the attractiveness of the united kingdom as a global investment center and, as a result, could have a detrimental impact on u.k. growth. although we have an international customer base, we could be adversely affected by reduced growth and greater volatility in the pound sterling and the u.k. economy. changes to u.k. immigration policy could likewise occur as a result of brexit. although the united kingdom would likely retain its diverse pool of talent, london's role as a global financial center may decline, particularly if financial institutions shift their operations to the european union and the e.u. financial services passport is not maintained. any adjustments we make to our business and operations as of brexit could result in significant time and expense to complete. any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our international operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations. we operate in many countries around the world and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. in 2016, we generated approximately 40 percent of our revenues from sales outside the united states. approximately 20 percent of our revenue is transacted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets, and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the british pound, the canadian dollar, the indian rupee and the euro. as we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses will likely be incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related products and services. an increase in the value of certain currencies against the u.s. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at offshore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local currency. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues, income, expenses, and the value of assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the 18 table of contents end of each reporting period. we may use derivative financial instruments to reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. nevertheless, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other major currencies can materially affect our net operating revenues, operating income, and the value of balance sheet items denominated in other currencies. we expect foreign currency to negatively impact our revenue growth in 2017. our international operations are subject to risks relating to worldwide operations. operating in many jurisdictions around the world, we may be affected by numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal and regulatory regimes, including: changes in tax rates and tax laws or their interpretation, including changes related to tax holidays or tax incentives; trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region; and difficulties in staffing and managing local operations. we must also manage: difficulties in penetrating new markets because of established and entrenched competitors, uncertainties of obtaining data and creating products and services that are relevant to particular geographic markets; lack of recognition of our brands, products or services, unavailability of joint venture partners or local companies for acquisition, restrictions or limitations on outsourcing contracts or services abroad, differing levels of data privacy and intellectual property protection in various jurisdictions; potential adverse tax consequences on the repatriation of funds and from taxation reform affecting multinational companies and exposure to adverse government action in countries where we may conduct reporting activities. because of the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights. compliance with diverse legal and regulatory requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. violations could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions, prohibitions or restrictions on doing business and damage to our reputation. in addition, as we operate our business around the world, we must manage the potential conflicts between locally accepted business practices in any given jurisdiction and our obligations to comply with laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws or regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act 2010. we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program which includes, among other things, employee training and the creation of appropriate policies defining employee behavior that mandate adherence to laws. while we implement policies and procedures intended to promote and facilitate compliance with all applicable laws, our employees, contractors, and agents, as well as those independent companies to which we outsource certain business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. our inability to manage some or all of these risks of operating a global business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. international hostilities, terrorist or cyber-terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics, and infrastructure disruptions could prevent us from effectively serving our customers and thus adversely affect our results of operations. acts of terrorist violence, cyber-terrorism, political unrest, armed regional and international hostilities and international responses to these hostilities, natural disasters, including hurricanes or floods, global health risks or pandemics or the threat of or perceived potential for these events could have a negative impact on us. these events could adversely affect our customers' levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. these events also pose significant risks to our employees and our physical facilities and operations around the world, whether the facilities are ours or those of our third-party service providers or customers. by disrupting communications and travel and increasing the difficulty of obtaining and retaining highly skilled and qualified personnel, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products and services to our customers. extended disruptions of electricity, other public utilities or network services at our facilities, as well as system failures at our facilities or otherwise, could also adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. we may be unable to protect our employees, facilities and systems against all such occurrences. we generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, conflicts and wars. if these disruptions prevent us from effectively serving our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. if we are unable to successfully identify acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances or we experience integration or other risks resulting from our acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances, our financial results may be adversely affected. as we continue pursuing selective acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances with third parties to support our business and growth strategy, we seek to be disciplined, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition, strategic investment, partnership or alliance candidates on favorable terms, if at all. in addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from our past and future acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships and alliances depends in part upon our ability to effectively integrate the offerings, technology, sales, 19 table of contents administrative functions, and personnel of these businesses into our business. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances or that they will perform at the levels we anticipate. in addition, our past and future strategic acquisitions, partnerships and alliances may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities or disrupt our operations. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. the success of the merger will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine the legacy businesses of ihs and markit in a manner that realizes anticipated synergies and exceeds the projected stand-alone cost savings and revenue growth trends identified by us. we expect to benefit from cost synergies driven by integrating corporate functions, reducing technology spending by optimizing it infrastructure, using centers of excellence in cost-competitive locations and optimizing real estate and other costs, as well as greater tax efficiencies from global management and global cash movement. we may also enjoy revenue synergies, including product and service cross-selling, a more diversified and expanded product offering and balance across geographic regions. however, we must successfully combine the legacy businesses of ihs and markit in a manner that permits these cost savings and synergies to be realized. in addition, we must achieve the anticipated savings and synergies in a timely manner and without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. if we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, or the cost to achieve these synergies is greater than expected, we may not realize fully, or at all, the anticipated benefits of the merger, or it may take longer to realize the benefits than expected. a variety of factors may adversely affect our ability to realize the currently expected operating synergies, savings and other benefits of the merger, including the failure to successfully optimize our facilities footprint, the inability to leverage existing customer relationships, the failure to identify and eliminate duplicative programs, the failure to otherwise integrate the legacy businesses of ihs and markit, unforeseen increased expenses associated with the merger and possible adverse tax consequences pursuant to changes in applicable tax laws, regulations or other administrative guidance. we may encounter significant difficulties in combining the legacy ihs and markit businesses. the combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. as a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to combining the business practices and operations of the legacy ihs and markit businesses. this process may disrupt the businesses. the failure to meet the challenges involved in combining the two businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the transactions could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company and could adversely affect our results of operations. the overall combination of legacy ihs and markit businesses may also result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer and other business relationships and diversion of management attention. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: the diversion of management attention to integration matters; difficulties in integrating operations and systems and maintaining institutional knowledge and procedures; challenges in conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the two companies; difficulties in attracting and retaining key personnel; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the combination; unanticipated transaction and integration expenses; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex and geographically diverse company; contingent liabilities (including contingent tax liabilities) that are larger than expected; and potential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the merger, including possible adverse tax consequences to the combined company pursuant to changes in applicable tax laws or regulations. many of these factors are outside of our control, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased expected revenues and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company. our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 20 table of contents our indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our indebtedness obligations and our other ongoing business obligations, which may result in defaults; events of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt instruments, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable or require us to negotiate an amendment to financial or other covenants that could cause us to incur additional fees and expenses; sensitivity to interest rate increases on our variable rate outstanding indebtedness, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly; reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate, and the overall economy; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and increasing our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. this, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any future credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our indebtedness obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. we may incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, for many reasons, including to fund acquisitions. if we add additional indebtedness or other liabilities, the related risks that we face could intensify. the price of our common shares may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. our share price is likely to fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market in general and a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. market fluctuations could result in volatility in the price of our common shares, one possible outcome of which could be a decline in the value of your investment. in addition, if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts or investors, or if we are perceived by the market to suffer material business or reputational damage, we may experience a significant decline in the trading price of our common shares. sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our shares to decline. sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. we have entered into a registration rights and lock-up agreement with certain of our shareholders. following the expiration of the lock-up periods set forth in that agreement, these shareholders will have the right to demand that we file a registration statement covering the offer and sale of their securities under the securities act, for as long as each holds unregistered securities. sales of common shares by these or any other shareholders, including through the exercise of options and the sale of shares by our employees, could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common shares. in addition, in february 2016, general atlantic entered into a loan agreement pursuant to which it pledged 23,275,970 of our common shares to secure a $170.0 million loan. if general atlantic were to default on its obligations under the loan and not timely post additional collateral, the lender would have the right to sell shares to satisfy general atlantic's obligation. we cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares would have on the market price of our common shares. the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) may not agree that, after the merger, ihs markit should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and/or that we are not subject to certain other adverse u.s. federal income tax laws relating to certain transactions that we may undertake in the future. in addition, future changes to u.s. tax laws could adversely affect us. although ihs markit is incorporated in bermuda and is and has been treated as tax resident in the united kingdom, the irs may assert that ihs markit should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the code (referred to as section 7874 ). section 7874 provides that if, following an acquisition of a u.s. corporation by a non-u.s. corporation, at least 80% of the acquiring non-u.s. corporation's stock (by vote or value) is considered to be held by former shareholders of the u.s. corporation by reason of holding stock of such u.s. corporation (such percentage referred to as the ownership percentage and such test referred to as the ownership 21 table of contents test ) and the expanded affiliated group which includes the acquiring non-u.s. corporation does not have substantial business activities in the country in which the acquiring non-u.s. corporation is created or organized, then the non-u.s. corporation would be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes even though it is a corporation created and organized outside the united states. moreover, if the ownership percentage is 60% or more (but less than 80%), the acquired u.s. corporation and its u.s. affiliates could be prohibited from using foreign tax credits or other attributes to offset the income or gain recognized by reason of the transfer of property to a foreign related person or any income received or accrued by reason of a license of any property by the acquired u.s. corporation to a foreign related person. in addition, in such case, a combined company may have a limited ability to integrate certain of its non-u.s. operations or access cash earned by the acquired u.s. corporation's non-u.s. subsidiaries, in each case without incurring substantial u.s. tax liabilities. we believe that, based on current law, section 7874 did not to apply to us after the merger because the former ihs stockholders held, for purposes of the relevant section 7874 rules, less than 60% of our common shares (by vote and value) after the merger by reason of holding ihs common stock. however, there is limited guidance regarding the application of section 7874, and there can be no assurance that the irs will agree with the position that the former ihs stockholders will be treated as holding less than 60% of our common shares (by vote and value) after the merger by reason of holding ihs common stock for purposes of the ownership test. further, a subsequent change in law might cause ihs stockholders to be treated as owning either 60% or more, or 80% or more, of our common shares after the merger for u.s. federal income tax purposes, including with retroactive effect to the date of the merger. if ihs stockholders were treated as having acquired 80% of our common shares for u.s. federal income tax purposes, ihs markit would be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and we could be liable for substantial additional u.s. federal income tax on its operations and income following the closing of the merger. additionally, non-u.s. shareholders would be subject to u.s. withholding tax on the gross amount of any dividends we pay to such shareholders. if ihs stockholders were treated as having acquired 60% or more (but less than 80%) of our common shares for u.s. federal income tax purposes, while ihs markit would not be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could be subject to the other adverse tax consequences described above. finally, recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of u.s. corporate tax residence, including in such a way as would cause ihs markit to be treated as a u.s. corporation if the management and control of ihs markit and its affiliates were determined to be located primarily in the united states, or would reduce the ownership percentage at or above which ihs markit would be treated as a u.s. corporation. thus, the rules under section 7874 and other relevant provisions of u.s. tax law could change on a prospective or retroactive basis in a manner that could adversely affect us. audits, investigations and tax proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to direct and indirect taxes in numerous jurisdictions. we calculate and provide for such taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. the amount of tax we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. we have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of tax laws, but tax accounting often involves complex matters and judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe that we have complied with all applicable tax laws, we have been and expect to continue to be subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, and tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with some of our interpretations of applicable tax law. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits to determine the appropriateness of our tax provisions. however, our judgments may not be sustained on completion of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. future changes in tax laws, including in the rates of taxation, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our tax liabilities and effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. tax laws, including tax rates, in the jurisdictions in which we operate may change as a result of macroeconomic, political or other factors, and such changes could have a negative impact on our profitability. for example, the u.s. congress, the organisation for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ) and other government agencies have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. one example is in the area of base erosion and profit shifting. the g20 finance ministers have endorsed a comprehensive plan set forth by the oecd to create an agreed set of 22 table of contents international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting. as a result, the tax laws in the united states, the united kingdom, and other countries in which we operate could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect us. in addition, changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may be unpredictable, particularly in less developed markets, and could become more stringent, which could materially adversely affect our tax position. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our common shares, including enforcing judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. we are organized under the laws of bermuda, as a bermuda exempted company. as a result, our corporate affairs and the rights of holders of our common shares are governed by bermuda law, including the companies act 1981 (the companies act ), which differs in some material respects from laws typically applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. generally, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies typically do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. class actions are not available under bermuda law. the circumstances in which derivative actions may be available under bermuda law are substantially more proscribed and less clear than they would be to shareholders of u.s. corporations. the bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. furthermore, consideration would be given by a bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company's shareholders than that which actually approved it. when the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the supreme court of bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company's affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty. in addition, the rights of holders of our common shares and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the united states, particularly the state of delaware. it is also doubtful whether courts in bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the united states, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. therefore, holders of our common shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the united states. we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. these provisions provide for: a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; directors only to be removed for cause; restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated; our board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval; and an affirmative vote of 66-2/3% of our voting shares for certain business combination transactions which have not been approved by our board of directors. these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party's offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to potential losses from adverse changes in market rates and prices. we are exposed to market risk primarily in the form of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, and credit risk. we actively monitor these exposures. in order to manage these exposures, we use derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forwards. our objective is to reduce fluctuations in revenue, earnings, and cash flows resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. we do not use derivatives for speculative purposes. interest rate risk as of november 30, 2016 , we had no significant investments other than cash and cash equivalents and therefore we were not exposed to material interest rate risk on investments. our 2016 revolving facility, our 2016 term loan, and our 2017 term loan borrowings are subject to variable interest rates. we use interest rate swaps in order to fix a portion of our variable rate debt as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. as of november 30, 2016, we had $2.473 billion of floating-rate debt at a 2.01 percent weighted-average interest rate, of which $400 million was subject to effective floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points applied to our floating rate indebtedness would increase annual interest expense by approximately $21 million ($25 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). foreign currency exchange rate risk our consolidated financial statements are expressed in u.s. dollars, but a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than u.s. dollars. changes in the exchange rates for such currencies into u.s. dollars can affect our revenues, 43 table of contents earnings, and the carrying values of our assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet, either positively or negatively. fluctuations in foreign currency rates increased (decreased) our revenues by approximately $(50) million , $(46) million , and $3 million for the years ended november 30, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively, and had no material impact on operating income for the same respective periods. the translation effects of changes in exchange rates in our consolidated balance sheet are recorded within the cumulative translation adjustment component of our stockholders' equity. in 2016 , we recorded a cumulative translation loss of $250 million , reflecting changes in exchange rates of various currencies compared to the u.s. dollar. a hypothetical ten percent change in the currencies that we are primarily exposed to would have impacted our 2016 revenue by approximately $59 million and would not have had a material impact on operating income. approximately 80% of total revenue was earned in subsidiaries with the u.s. dollar as the functional currency. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk associated with cash equivalents, foreign currency and interest rate derivatives, and trade receivables. we do not believe that our cash equivalents or foreign currency and interest rate derivatives present significant credit risks because the counterparties to the instruments consist of major financial institutions that are financially sound, and we manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty. substantially all trade receivable balances are unsecured. the concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited by the large number of customers in our customer base and their dispersion across various industries and geographic areas. we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain an allowance for potential credit losses.risk factors 12 risk factors - we may not be able to protect intellectual property rights. employees as of november 30, 2017 , we had more than 13,000 employees located in 34 countries around the world. seasonality our business has seasonal aspects. our first quarter generally has our lowest quarterly levels of revenue and profit. we also experience event-driven seasonality in our business; for instance, ceraweek, an annual energy conference, is typically held in the second quarter of each year. another example is the biennial release of the boiler pressure vessel code ( bpvc ) engineering standard, which generates revenue for us predominantly in the third quarter of every other year. the most recent bpvc release was in the third quarter of 2017. 11 table of contents financial information about segments see item 8 - financial statements and supplementary data - notes to consolidated financial statements - note 18 in part ii of this form 10-k for information with respect to each segment's revenues, profits, and total assets and for information with respect to our revenues and long-lived assets for the u.s., u.k., and the rest of the world in aggregate. see also item 1a. risk factors - our international operations are subject to risks relating to worldwide operations. available information ihs markit files annual, quarterly, and current reports, and other information with the sec. you may read and copy any documents we file at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. you may call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for information on the public reference room. the sec maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information that issuers (including ihs markit) file electronically with the sec. the sec's website is www.sec.gov. the company makes available, free of charge through our website, www.ihsmarkit.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, our quarterly reports on form 10-q, our proxy statement, current reports on form 8-k, and forms 3, 4, and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, as well as any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. unless specifically incorporated by reference, information on our website is not a part of this form 10-k. our amended and restated bye-laws, corporate governance guidelines, audit committee charter, risk committee charter, human resources committee charter, nominating and governance committee charter, business code of conduct, and compliance hotline and reporting misconduct policy are available on our website, www.ihsmarkit.com, in the investor relations section, or upon request. copies of each of these documents are also available, without charge, from ihs markit investor relations and corporate communications, 15 inverness way east, englewood, co 80112 or by calling (303) 790-0600. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information provided in this form 10-k, you should carefully consider the risks described in this section. the risks described below are not the only risks that could adversely affect our business; other risks currently deemed immaterial or additional risks not currently known to us could also adversely affect us. these and other factors could have a material adverse effect on the value of your investment in our securities, meaning that you could lose all or part of your investment. note that this section includes forward-looking statements and future expectations as of the date of this form 10-k. this discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii of this form 10-k. our business performance might not be sufficient for us to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide publicly. we provide full-year financial guidance to the public based upon our assumptions regarding our expected financial performance. for example, we provide assumptions regarding our ability to grow revenue, our expenses and tax rates, and our ability to achieve our profitability targets. while we believe that our annual financial guidance provides investors and analysts with insight to our view of the company's future performance, such financial guidance is based on assumptions that may not always prove to be accurate and may vary from actual results. if we fail to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide, or if we find it necessary to revise such guidance during the year, the market value of our common shares could be adversely affected. we operate in competitive markets, which may adversely affect our financial results. while we do not believe that we have a direct competitor across all of the industries we serve, we face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, including by larger or smaller competitors that may be able to adopt new or emerging technologies to address customer requirements more quickly than we can. we may also face competition from incumbent companies with strong market share in specific markets or organizations and businesses that have not traditionally competed with us but that could adapt their products and services or utilize significant financial and information-gathering resources, recognized brands, or technological expertise to begin competing with us. we believe that competitors are continuously enhancing their products and services, developing new products and services, investing in 12 table of contents technology, and consolidating or acquiring new businesses to better serve the needs of their existing customers and to attract new customers. increased competition could require us to make additional capital investments. the impact of cost-cutting pressures across the industries we serve could lower demand for our products and services, as customers intensify their focus on containing or reducing costs. our competitors may choose to sell products and services competitive with ours at lower prices or bundled with other offerings, which may require us to reduce the prices of our offerings or offer additional products or services to compete. an increase in our capital investments, price reductions for our offerings or reduced spending by our customers could negatively impact our revenues, margins and results of operations. we may be unsuccessful in achieving our growth and profitability objectives. we seek to achieve our growth objectives by enhancing our offerings to meet the needs of our customers through organic development, including by delivering integrated workflow platforms, cross-selling our products across our existing customer base and acquiring new customers, entering into strategic partnerships, acquisitions, and by implementing operational efficiency initiatives. if we are unable to successfully execute on our strategies to achieve our growth objectives or drive operational efficiencies, or if we experience higher than expected operating costs that cannot be adjusted accordingly, our growth and profitability rates could be adversely affected. an additional factor that may adversely affect our growth rates is continued global economic uncertainty, particularly in our energy and financial end markets. our resources and financial markets segments in particular may be adversely affected by industry dynamics, including decisions on the part of our customers to defer capital spending in uncertain economic environments. if we are unable to develop successful new products and services or adapt to rapidly changing technology, our business could suffer serious harm. the information services industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing regulatory requirements. our growth and success depend upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to keep pace with such changes and developments and to meet changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs. the process of developing our products and services is complex and may become increasingly complex and expensive in the future due to the introduction of new platforms, operating systems, technologies and customer expectations. current areas of significant technological change include artificial intelligence, mobility, cloud-based computing, blockchain, speed of availability of data, and the processing and analyzing of large amounts of data. we may find it difficult or costly to update our services and software and to develop new products and services quickly enough to work effectively with new or changed technologies and regulations, to keep the pace with evolving industry standards or to meet our customers' needs. if we are unable to develop new products or services, or to successfully enhance or update existing products and services, we may not be able to grow our business as quickly as we anticipate. fraudulent or unpermitted data access or other cyber-security or privacy breaches may negatively impact our business and harm our reputation. many of our products and services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data. similar to other global multinational companies that provide services online, we experience cyber-threats, cyber-attacks and security breaches, which can include unauthorized attempts to access, disable, improperly modify or degrade our information, systems and networks, the introduction of computer viruses and other malicious codes and fraudulent phishing e-mails that seek to misappropriate data and information or install malware onto users' computers. cyber-threats in particular vary in technique and sources, are persistent, frequently change and increasingly are more sophisticated, targeted and difficult to detect and prevent against. several recent, highly publicized data security breaches and cyber-attacks have heightened awareness of this issue and may embolden individuals or groups to target our systems. while we have dedicated resources at our company who are responsible for maintaining appropriate levels of cyber-security and training our business teams on cyber-security, and while we utilize third party technology product and services to help identify, protect and remediate our information technology systems and infrastructure against security breaches and cyber-incidents, our measures may not be adequate or effective to prevent, identify or mitigate attacks by hackers or breaches caused by employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. we are also dependent on security measures that some of our third party suppliers and customers are taking to protect their own systems and infrastructures. for example, our outsourcing of certain functions requires us to sometimes grant network access to third party suppliers. if our third party suppliers do not maintain adequate security measures, do not require their sub-contractors to maintain adequate security measures, do not perform as anticipated and in accordance with contractual requirements or become targets of cyber-attacks, we may experience operational difficulties and increased costs. in addition, if a customer experiences a data security breach that results in the misappropriation of some of our proprietary business information, our reputation could be harmed, even if we 13 table of contents were not responsible for the breach. while we maintain what we believe is sufficient insurance coverage that may (subject to certain policy terms and conditions including deductibles) cover certain aspects of third party security and cyber-risks and business interruption, our insurance coverage may not always cover all costs or losses. we collect, store, use and transmit confidential and sensitive data on our networks, including information from public and private sources, intellectual property, proprietary business information and confidential or personally identifiable information of our customers, employees, and suppliers. we rely on a system of physical and technological security measures, internal processes and controls, contractual precautions and business continuity plans, and policies, procedures and training to protect the confidentiality of such data. any fraudulent, malicious or accidental breach of data security controls could also result in unintentional disclosure of, or unauthorized access to, or misappropriation or misuse of, customer, vendor, employee or other confidential or sensitive data or information, which could potentially result in additional costs to our company to enhance security or to respond to occurrences, lost sales, violations of regulations or laws relating to the privacy of personal or payment card information, penalties or litigation. similarly, if any embargoed data is inadvertently disclosed or deliberately misused prior to our authorization, customers and financial markets could be negatively affected, and any resulting need to change our procedures around the provision of embargoed data to any third parties may diminish the value of such offerings. in addition, media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities to our systems or those of our third party suppliers, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact our reputation and materially impact our business. misappropriation, misuse, improper modification or disclosure, destruction, corruption or unavailability of data and information or ransom demands due to cyber-attacks or other security breaches could damage our brand and reputation and customers and data suppliers could lose confidence in our processes, security measures and reliability, which would harm our ability to retain customers and data suppliers and gain new ones. we could also face litigation or other claims from impacted individuals as well as substantial regulatory sanctions or fines. we may be required to incur significant costs to minimize or alleviate the effects of cyber-attacks or other security vulnerabilities and to protect against damage caused by disruptions, security breaches, or cyber-attacks of the nature we have already incurred, in the future. if any of these were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we could experience system failures or capacity constraints that could negatively impact our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex systems, relying on people, processes, and technology to function effectively. most of our products and services are delivered electronically, and our customers rely on our ability to process and deliver substantial quantities of information and other services on computer-based networks. some elements of these systems have been outsourced to third-party providers, including critical data inputs received from third-party suppliers. some of our systems have been consolidated for the purpose of enhancing scalability and efficiency, which increases our dependency on a smaller number of systems. any failure of, or significant interruption, delay or disruption to, or security breaches affecting, our systems could result in: disruption to our operations; significant expense to repair, replace or remediate systems, equipment or facilities; a loss of customers; legal or regulatory claims, proceedings or fines; damage to our reputation; and harm to our business. system interruption, failures or security breaches could result from a wide variety of causes, including: human error, natural disasters (such as hurricanes and floods), infrastructure or network failures (including failures at third-party data centers or by third party cloud-computing providers), disruptions to the internet, malicious attacks or cyber incidents such as unauthorized access, ransomware, loss or destruction of data (including confidential and/or personal customer information), account takeovers, computer viruses or other malicious code, and the loss or failure of systems over which we have no control. in addition, significant growth of our customer base or increases in the number of products or services or in the speed at which we are required to provide products and services may also strain our systems in the future. we may also face significant increases in our use of power and data storage and may experience a shortage of capacity and increased costs associated with such usage. while we generally have disaster recovery and business continuity plans that utilize industry standards and best practices for much of our business, including back-up facilities for our primary data centers, a testing program and staff training, our systems are not always fully redundant and our disaster recovery and business continuity plans may not always be sufficient or effective. in the past when we have experienced slow operation of our systems or service interruptions, some of our products or services have been unavailable for a limited period of time, but none of these occurrences have been material to our business. however, any of the above factors could individually or in the aggregate adversely affect our business, and our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all failures, interruptions, delays, disruptions or security breaches. 14 table of contents design defects, errors, failures or delays associated with our products or services could negatively impact our business. despite testing, software, products and services that we develop, license or distribute may contain errors or defects when first released or when major new updates or enhancements are released that cause the software, product or service to operate incorrectly or less effectively. many of our products and services also rely on data and services provided by third-party providers over which we have no control and may be provided to us with defects, errors or failures. we may also experience delays while developing and introducing new products and services for various reasons, such as difficulties in licensing data inputs or adapting to particular operating environments. defects, errors or delays in our products or services that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could result in rejection or delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, a lower rate of license renewals or upgrades, diversion of development resources, product liability claims or regulatory actions, or increases in service and support costs. we may also need to expend significant capital resources to eliminate or work around defects, errors, failures or delays. in each of these ways, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. we depend on externally obtained content and services to support our offerings, and the inability to continue to obtain access could prove harmful to our business. we obtain data from a wide variety of external sources that we transform into critical information and analytics and use to create integrated product and service offerings for our customers. many of our offerings include content and information that is purchased or licensed from third parties, including from public record sources or parties that are our customers or our competitors, or obtained using independent contractors. in addition, we often rely on third-party dealers to sell or distribute some of our offerings, such as in locations where we do not maintain a sales office or sales teams or methods of distribution we do not have direct access to. for instance, our industry standards offerings that are part of our product design workflow rely on information licensed from standards developing organizations, and many of our financial institution customers provide us with data which is a critical input for many of our financial services offerings. we believe that the content licensed from many of these third parties might not be able to be obtained from alternate sources on favorable terms, if at all. our license agreements with these third parties are often nonexclusive and many are terminable on less than one year's notice. in addition, many of these third parties compete with one another and with us, including by providing data to our competitors or becoming competitors themselves, which may cause them to reduce their willingness to supply, or increase the price of, data and content that are important to our products and services. our competitors could also enter into exclusive contracts with our data sources, which may preclude us from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data. we could also become subject to legislative, regulatory, judicial or contractual restrictions on the use of data, such as if such data is not collected by the third parties in a way which allows us to process the data or use it legally. we are also limited in our ability to monitor and direct the activities of our independent contractors, but if any actions or business practices of these individuals or entities violate our policies or procedures or are otherwise deemed inappropriate or illegal, we could lose access to the data they collect, as well as be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions, or reputational damage. if we lose access to, or are restricted in receiving, a significant number of data sources and cannot replace the data through alternative sources or we are unable to obtain information licensed to us consistently, in a timely manner, or on terms commercially reasonable to us, specific products, services and customer solutions may be impacted or disrupted and our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. our relationships with third-party service providers may not be successful or may change, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we have commercial relationships with third-party service providers whose capabilities complement our own, for integral services, software and technologies. many of our products and services are developed using third-party service providers' data or services, or are made available to our customers or are integrated for our customers' use through integral infrastructure, information and technology solutions provided by such third-party service providers. for example, we outsource certain functions involving our data transformation process and data hosting functions to business partners who we believe offer us deep expertise in these areas, as well as scalability and cost effective services. in some cases, these providers are also our competitors or may in the future become our competitors as we expand our product and service offerings, which could impact our relationships. the priorities and objectives of these providers may differ from ours, which may make us vulnerable to changes or terminations of our commercial relationships and could reduce our access over time to information and technology. we have little control over these third-party providers, which increases our vulnerability to errors, failures, interruptions or disruptions or problems with their services or technologies. we also face risks that one or more service providers may perform work that deviates from our standards or that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. any errors, failures to 15 table of contents perform, interruptions, delays or terminations of service experienced in connection with these third-party providers, or if we do not obtain the expected benefits from our relationships with third-party service providers, we may be less competitive, our products and services may be negatively affected, and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. the loss of, or the inability to attract and retain, key personnel could impair our future success. our future success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees, including our experts in research and analysis, information technology, the industries in which we operate, and colleagues in sales, marketing, product development, operations, technology and management, including our executive officers. we do not carry any key person insurance policies that could offset potential loss of service under applicable circumstances. we must maintain our ability to attract, motivate, compensate and retain highly qualified colleagues in order to support our customers and achieve business results. the loss of the services of key personnel and any inability to recruit effective replacements or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain highly qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. some of the critical information we use in our offerings is publicly available in raw form at little or no cost. the internet, widespread availability of sophisticated search engines, pervasive wireless data delivery and public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information and solutions have simplified the process of locating, gathering, and disseminating data, potentially diminishing the perceived value of our offerings. while we believe our offerings are distinguished by such factors as currency, accuracy and completeness, and our analysis and other added value, our customers could choose to obtain the information and solutions they need from public, regulatory, governmental or other sources. to the extent that customers become more self-sufficient, demand for our offerings may be reduced, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information. our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, processes, methodologies and information. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws and nondisclosure, license, assignment and confidentiality arrangements to establish, maintain and protect our proprietary rights as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose content we license. however, we cannot assure that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, are adequate to prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation, or theft of our intellectual property. intellectual property laws in various jurisdictions in which we operate are also subject to change at any time and could further restrict our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. in particular, a portion of our revenues are derived from jurisdictions where adequately protecting intellectual property rights may prove more challenging or impossible. we may also not be able to detect unauthorized uses or take timely and effective steps to remedy unauthorized conduct. to prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation or other proceedings and we may not ultimately prevail. any failure to establish, maintain or protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may be exposed to litigation related to products we make available to customers and we may face legal liability or damage to our reputation. companies in our industry have increasingly pursued patent and other intellectual property protection for their data, technologies and business methods. as we do not actively monitor third-party intellectual property, if any of our data, technologies or business methods are covered or become covered by third-party intellectual property protection and used without license or if we misuse data, technologies or business methods outside the terms of our licenses, we may be subject to claims or threats of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of intellectual property rights, or have the use of our data, technologies and business methods otherwise challenged. we have also in the past been, and may in the future be, called upon to defend partners, customers, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our agreements. responding to such claims or threats, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time and resources, result in costly or unfavorable litigation or settlements that could exceed the limits of applicable insurance coverage, delay operations of our business, require redesign of our products and services, or require new royalty and licensing agreements. it could also damage our reputation for any reason which could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, employees, and information suppliers. any such factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 16 table of contents we are subject to litigation risks which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are from time to time involved in various litigation matters and claims, including regulatory proceedings, administrative proceedings, governmental investigations, and contract disputes, as they relate to our products, services and business. we may face potential claims or liability for, among other things, breach of contract, defamation, libel, fraud or negligence, with respect to the use of our offerings by our customers, particularly if the information in our offerings was incorrect for any reason, or if it were misused or used inappropriately. we may also face employment-related litigation, including claims of age discrimination, sexual harassment, gender discrimination, immigration violations, or other local, state, and federal labor law violations. because of the uncertain nature of litigation and insurance coverage decisions, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. litigation is very costly, and the costs associated with prosecuting and defending litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in light of the potential cost and uncertainty involved in litigation, we may settle matters even when we believe we have a meritorious defense. although we are unable to estimate precisely the ultimate dollar amount of exposure to loss in connection with litigation matters, we make accruals as warranted. however, the amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from the amounts we actually pay, due to inherent uncertainties and the inherent shortcomings of the estimation process, the uncertainties involved in litigation and other factors. our use of open source software could result in litigation or impose unanticipated restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services. we use open source software in our technology, most often as small components within a larger product or service. open source code is also contained in some third-party software we rely on. the terms of many open source licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. or other courts, and these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services, license the software on unfavorable terms, require us to re-engineer our products and services or take other remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we could also be subject to suits by parties claiming breach of the terms of licenses, which could be costly for us to defend. our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. our ability to attract and retain customers is affected by external perceptions of our brand and reputation. we enter into redistribution arrangements that allow other firms to represent certain of our products and services. reputational damage from negative perceptions or publicity could damage our reputation with customers, prospects, and the public generally. although we monitor developments for areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. cost-cutting pressures and consolidation in our customer markets could lower demand for our products and services. our customers are focused on controlling or reducing spending as a result of the continued financial challenges and market uncertainty many of them face. customers within the financial services, shipping and energy industries in particular strive to reduce their operating costs, and may use strategies that result in a reduction in their spending on our products and service, such as by consolidating their spending with fewer or lower cost vendors or by internally developing products, services and functionality. in addition, mergers or consolidations among our customers could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers, which could cause them to discontinue or reduce their use of our products and services. all such developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. declining activity levels in our core end markets, or weak or declining financial performance of companies in our end markets, could lower demand for certain of our products and services. many of our products and services are dependent upon the robustness of the core end markets in which we operate, as well as the financial health of the participants in those markets and the general economy. in addition, a proportion of our revenue in our financial services segment is variable and depends upon transaction volumes, investment levels, or the number of positions we value. unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions or lower activity levels in the end markets in which we operate could result in cancellations, reductions, or delays for our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 17 table of contents some of our products and services typically face long selling cycles to secure new contracts, which require significant resource commitments and result in long lead times before we receive revenue. for certain new products and services, and especially for complex products and services, we often face long selling cycles to secure new contracts and customers and there can be a long preparation period before we commence providing products and services. for instance, some of our financial markets products and services can require active engagement with potential customers and can take 12 months or more to reach deal closure. some products' success is also dependent on building a network of users, and may not be profitable while such a network is developing. we can incur significant business development expenses during the selling cycle and we may not succeed in winning a new customer's business, in which case we receive no revenue and may receive no reimbursement for such expenses. selling cycle periods have historically lengthened and could lengthen further, causing us to incur even higher business development expenses with no guarantee of winning a new customer's business. even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new customer, we may not be successful in obtaining contractual commitments after the selling cycle or in maintaining contractual commitments after the implementation cycle, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. if we are unable to consistently renew and enter into new subscriptions for our offerings, our results could weaken. the majority of our revenue is recurring, typically based on subscription agreement to our offerings. in 2017, approximately 83 percent of our revenues were recurring fixed and recurring variable revenues. our operating results depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high renewal rates on our existing subscription base and to enter into new subscription arrangements at acceptable prices and other commercially acceptable terms. failure to meet one or more of these subscription objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. declining transaction volumes or investment levels in the financial markets could lower demand for our products and services and could affect our revenues. a portion of our revenues in our financial services segment are variable and depend upon transaction volumes, investment levels (i.e., assets under management) or the number of positions we value. lower activity levels in the financial markets, including lower transaction volumes, assets under management or positions taken could result in lower revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. changes in the legislative, regulatory, and commercial environments in which we operate may adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, use, cross-border transfer, publish and/or sell data, subject us to increased regulation of our products and services or prevent us from offering certain products or services, decrease demand for our products and services and impact our financial results. certain types of information we collect, compile, store, use, transfer, publish and/or sell, and certain of our products and services, are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions in which we operate. in addition, many of our customers rely on many of our products and services to meet their operational, regulatory or compliance needs. our financial industry customers, for example, operate within a highly regulated environment and must comply with governmental and quasi-governmental legislation, regulations, directives and standards. legislative and regulatory changes that impact our customers' industries may impact how we provide products and services to our customers. over the past few years, the united states, the european union and other jurisdictions have introduced complex and ever-evolving legislation and regulation of financial markets, such as the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ) in the united states and the european market infrastructure regulation ( emir ), the benchmark regulation ( bmr ), the new markets in financial instruments directive ( mifid ii ) and the markets in financial instruments regulation ( mifir ) in the european union. similarly, new, more stringent rules and regulation promulgated by the sec, u.s. commodity futures trading commission (the cftc ), the u.k. financial conduct authority, and the international organization of securities commissions ( iosco ) and other governmental and quasi-governmental organizations will likely affect the structure and regulation of, and possibly affect the demand for, certain products and services we offer, such as indices, benchmark administration, intermediating and clearing services, and offerings in which we function as a third-party service provider . there is an increasing public concern regarding privacy, data and consumer protection issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection laws has been increasing. certain types of information we collect, compile, use, and publish, including offerings in our automotive businesses, are subject to laws and regulations by governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. these laws and regulations pertain primarily to personally identifiable information and 18 table of contents personal data (i.e . , information relating to an identified or identifiable individual), constrain whether and how we collect that data, how that data may be used and stored, and whether, to whom and where that data may be transferred. many jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, such as the european union general data protection regulation (the gdpr ) and the new cyber-security law adopted by china in june 2017, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. in many cases, these laws and regulations apply not only to transfers between unrelated third-parties but also to transfers between us and our subsidiaries. these laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and increasingly conflict among the various countries in which we operate, which has resulted in greater compliance risk and cost for us. it is possible that we could be prohibited or constrained from collecting or disseminating certain types of data or from providing certain products or services. if we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant litigation, civil or criminal penalties, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions or fines in one or more jurisdictions. for example, a failure to comply with the gdpr could result in fines up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of annual global revenues. it is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding laws, rules, regulations or standards affecting our business, our products and services, and our customers. there can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules, regulations or standards, or fail to obtain regulatory approval to conduct certain operations or provide certain products or services, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. additionally, we may be required to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, rules or regulations in various jurisdictions, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in materially higher compliance costs to us. new legislation, or a significant change in laws, rules, regulations or standards could also result in some of our products and services becoming obsolete or prohibited, reduce demand for our products and services, increase expenses as we modify our products and services to comply with new requirements and retain relevancy, impose limitations on our operations, and increase compliance or litigation expense, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our compliance and risk management methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. our ability to comply with applicable complex and changing laws and rules, including anti-corruption laws, is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, surveillance, audit and reporting systems, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. while we have policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks, we cannot assure that our policies and procedures will always be effective or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed or detecting if our employees and agents are engaging in misconduct, fraud or other errors. in addition, some of our risk management methods depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. that information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. in case of non-compliance or alleged non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations by us or our employees or agents, we could be subject to investigations and proceedings that may be very expensive to defend and may result in substantial penalties or civil lawsuits, including by customers, for damages which can be significant. any of these outcomes would adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. further, the implementation of new legislation or regulations, or changes in or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies, could require us to incur significant compliance costs and impede our ability to operate, expand and enhance our products and services as necessary to remain competitive and grow our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the u.k. electorate voted in favor of a u.k. exit from the e.u. in a referendum, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. the u.k. government held an in-or-out referendum on the united kingdom's membership of the european union in june 2016, which resulted in the electorate voting in favor of a u.k. exit from the european union ( brexit ). the u.k. parliament voted in favor of allowing the government to commence negotiations to determine the future terms of the u.k.'s relationship with the european union, including the terms of trade between the united kingdom and the european union and other nations. a process of negotiation is now taking place to determine the future terms of the united kingdom's relationship with the european union. we are headquartered and tax domiciled in the united kingdom and conduct business in europe primarily through our u.k. subsidiaries. depending on the terms of brexit, we could face new regulatory costs and challenges. for instance, the united kingdom could lose access to the single e.u. market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the european union on behalf of its members, and we may be required to move certain operations to other european union members to maintain such access. a decline in trade could affect the attractiveness of the united kingdom as a global investment center and, as a result, could have a detrimental impact on u.k. growth. although we have an 19 table of contents international customer base, we could be adversely affected by reduced growth and greater volatility in the pound sterling and the u.k. economy. changes to u.k. immigration policy could likewise occur as a result of brexit. although the united kingdom would likely retain its diverse pool of talent, london's role as a global financial center may decline, particularly if financial institutions shift their operations to the european union and the e.u. financial services passport is not maintained. any adjustments we make to our business and operations as of brexit could result in significant time and expense to complete. any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our international operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations. we operate in many countries around the world and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. in 2017, we generated approximately 40 percent of our revenues from sales outside the united states. approximately 20 percent of our revenue was transacted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar in 2017. we earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets, and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the british pound, the euro, the canadian dollar, the singapore dollar, and the indian rupee. as we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses will likely be incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related products and services. an increase in the value of certain currencies against the u.s. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at offshore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local currency. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues, income, expenses, and the value of assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. we may use derivative financial instruments to reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. nevertheless, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other major currencies can materially affect our net operating revenues, operating income, and the value of balance sheet items denominated in other currencies. our international operations are subject to risks relating to worldwide operations. operating in many jurisdictions around the world, we may be affected by numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal and regulatory regimes, including: changes in tax rates and tax laws or their interpretation, including changes related to tax holidays or tax incentives; trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including export controls and economic sanctions laws; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; political conditions and events, including embargoes; different liability standards and legal systems that may be less developed and less predictable than those in the united states and the united kingdom, restrictive actions by the united states, the united kingdom, the european union and foreign governments that could limit our ability to provide services in specific countries; and potential noncompliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations. we must also manage: social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations difficulties in penetrating new markets because of established and entrenched competitors, uncertainties of obtaining data and creating products and services that are relevant to particular geographic markets; lack of recognition of our brands, products or services, unavailability of joint venture partners or local companies for acquisition, restrictions or limitations on outsourcing contracts or services abroad, differing levels of data privacy and intellectual property protection in various jurisdictions; potential adverse tax consequences on the repatriation of funds and from taxation reform affecting multinational companies and exposure to adverse government action in countries where we may conduct reporting activities. because of the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights. compliance with diverse legal and regulatory requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. violations could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions, prohibitions or restrictions on doing business and damage to our reputation. in addition, as we operate our business around the world, we must manage the potential conflicts between locally accepted business practices in any given jurisdiction and our obligations to comply with laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws or regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and the uk bribery act 2010 (the ukba ). the u.s., u.k. and other foreign agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against companies for violations of export controls, the fcpa, the ukba, and other laws, rules, sanctions, embargos and regulations, including those established by the office of foreign assets control ( ofac ). for example, in connection with the ongoing political turmoil in ukraine, the united states, the european union and other countries have imposed significant sanctions measures against russia targeting the energy, defense and financial sectors of russia's economy as well as specific russian officials and businesses that they own. although we believe all our business activities are permissible under all current applicable laws, rules, sanctions, embargos and regulations, we may be required to discontinue or limit our business activities in the future. 20 table of contents we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program intended to promote and facilitate compliance with all applicable laws which includes, among other things, employee training and the creation of appropriate policies defining employee behavior that mandate adherence to laws. we also have procedures and controls designed to comply with all applicable laws, rules, sanctions, embargos and regulations. however, despite these measures, we may fail to appropriately identify business activities that violate laws, rules, sanctions, embargos and regulations or our employees, contractors, and agents, as well as those independent companies to which we outsource certain business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies, procedures and controls. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, procedures and controls, could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, penalties for non-compliance or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. our inability to manage some or all of these risks of operating a global business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. international hostilities, terrorist or cyber-terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics, and infrastructure disruptions could prevent us from effectively serving our customers and thus adversely affect our results of operations. acts of terrorist violence, cyber-terrorism, political unrest, war, civil disturbance, armed regional and international hostilities and international responses to these hostilities, natural disasters, including hurricanes or floods, global health risks or pandemics or the threat of or perceived potential for these events could have a negative impact on us. these events could adversely affect our customers' levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. these events also pose significant risks to our employees and our physical facilities and operations around the world, whether the facilities are ours or those of our third-party service providers or customers. by disrupting communications and travel and increasing the difficulty of obtaining and retaining highly skilled and qualified personnel, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products and services to our customers. extended disruptions of electricity, other public utilities or network services at our facilities, as well as system failures at our facilities or otherwise, could also adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. we may be unable to protect our employees, facilities and systems against all such occurrences. we generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, conflicts and wars. if these disruptions prevent us from effectively serving our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. if we are unable to successfully identify acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances or we experience integration or other risks resulting from our acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances, our financial results may be adversely affected. as we continue pursuing selective acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances with third parties to support our business and growth strategy, we seek to be disciplined, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition, strategic investment, partnership or alliance candidates on favorable terms, if at all. in addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from our past and future acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships and alliances depends in part upon our ability to effectively integrate the offerings, technology, sales, administrative functions, and personnel of these businesses into our business. we cannot assure that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances or that they will perform at the levels we anticipate. in addition, our past and future strategic acquisitions, partnerships and alliances may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities or disrupt our operations. we may be subject to antitrust litigation or government investigation in the future, which may result in an award of money damages or force us to change the way we do business. in the past, certain of our business practices have been investigated by government antitrust or competition agencies, and we have on multiple occasions been sued by private parties for alleged violations of the antitrust and competition laws of various jurisdictions. following some of these actions, we have changed certain of our business practices to reduce the likelihood of future litigation. although each of these material prior legal actions has been resolved, there is a risk based upon the leading position of certain of our business operations that we could, in the future, be the target of investigations by government entities or actions by private parties challenging the legality of our business practices. depending on the outcome of any future claims or investigations, we may be required to change the way we offer particular products or services, which could result in material disruptions to and costs incurred by our business, and we may be subject to substantial fines, penalties, damages or an injunction or other equitable remedies. future claims or investigations (regardless of outcome) may also affect how parties interact with us, including the manner or type of data provided to us and the manner or type of data products and services purchased from us. any antitrust or competition-related claim or investigation could be costly for our company in terms of time and expense incurred defending such claims or investigations. any of the above impacts, individually or together, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 table of contents we may encounter difficulties as we continue to combine the legacy ihs and markit businesses and we may fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. the success of the merger depends on, among other things, our ability to combine the legacy businesses of ihs and markit in a manner that realizes anticipated synergies and exceeds the projected stand-alone cost savings and revenue growth trends we have identified, which is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. we expect to benefit from cost synergies driven by integrating corporate functions, reducing technology spending by optimizing it infrastructure, using centers of excellence in cost-competitive locations and optimizing real estate and other costs, as well as greater tax efficiencies from global management and global cash movement. we may also enjoy revenue synergies, including product and service cross-selling, a more diversified and expanded product offering and balance across geographic regions. while we have completed a significant portion of our key merger integration activities, primarily related to our shared services and corporate organization, we will continue to devote management attention and resources to combining the business practices and operations of the legacy ihs and markit businesses. if we are not able to successfully complete the combination of the business and fully realize the anticipated savings and synergies in a timely manner, or the cost to achieve these synergies is greater than expected, we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of the merger, or it may take longer to realize the benefits than expected. the completion of the combination of the businesses may have material unanticipated difficulties, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, and diversion of management attention, such as: difficulties in integrating operations and systems and maintaining institutional knowledge and procedures; challenges in conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the two companies; difficulties in attracting and retaining key personnel; challenges in keeping existing, and developing new, customers and business relationships; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the combination; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex and geographically diverse company; unanticipated transaction and integration expenses; contingent liabilities (including contingent tax liabilities) that are larger than expected; and potential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the merger, including possible adverse tax consequences pursuant to changes in applicable tax laws, regulations, or other administrative guidance. many of these factors are outside of our control, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased expected revenues and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations. our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our indebtedness obligations and our other ongoing business obligations, which may result in defaults; events of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt instruments, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable or require us to negotiate an amendment to financial or other covenants that could cause us to incur additional fees and expenses; sensitivity to interest rate increases on our variable rate outstanding indebtedness, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly; reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate, and the overall economy; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and increasing our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. 22 table of contents our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. this, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any future credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our indebtedness obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. we may incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, for many reasons, including to fund acquisitions. if we add additional indebtedness or other liabilities, the related risks that we face could intensify. the price of our common shares may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. our share price is likely to fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market in general and a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. market fluctuations could result in volatility in the price of our common shares, one possible outcome of which could be a decline in the value of your investment. in addition, if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts or investors, or if we are perceived by the market to suffer material business or reputational damage, we may experience a significant decline in the trading price of our common shares. sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our shares to decline. sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. we have entered into a registration rights and lock-up agreement with certain of our shareholders. following the expiration of the lock-up periods set forth in that agreement, these shareholders will have the right to demand that we file a registration statement covering the offer and sale of their securities under the securities act, for as long as each holds unregistered securities. sales of common shares by these or any other shareholders, including through the exercise of options and the sale of shares by our employees, could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common shares. in addition, in 2016 general atlantic entered into a loan agreement pursuant to which it has pledged its remaining 7,800,000 common shares to secure a loan. if general atlantic were to default on its obligations under the loan and not timely post additional collateral, the lender would have the right to sell shares to satisfy general atlantic's obligation. we cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares would have on the market price of our common shares. the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) may not agree that, after the merger, ihs markit should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and/or that we are not subject to certain other adverse u.s. federal income tax laws relating to certain transactions that we may undertake in the future. in addition, future changes to u.s. tax laws could adversely affect us. although ihs markit is incorporated in bermuda and is and has been treated as tax resident in the united kingdom, the irs may assert that ihs markit should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the code (referred to as section 7874 ). section 7874 provides that if, following an acquisition of a u.s. corporation by a non-u.s. corporation, at least 80% of the acquiring non-u.s. corporation's stock (by vote or value) is considered to be held by former shareholders of the u.s. corporation by reason of holding stock of such u.s. corporation (such percentage referred to as the ownership percentage and such test referred to as the ownership test ) and the expanded affiliated group which includes the acquiring non-u.s. corporation does not have substantial business activities in the country in which the acquiring non-u.s. corporation is created or organized, then the non-u.s. corporation would be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes even though it is a corporation created and organized outside the united states. moreover, if the ownership percentage is 60% or more (but less than 80%), the acquired u.s. corporation and its u.s. affiliates could be prohibited from using foreign tax credits or other attributes to offset the income or gain recognized by reason of the transfer of property to a foreign related person or any income received or accrued by reason of a license of any property by the acquired u.s. corporation to a foreign related person. in addition, in such case, a combined company may have a limited ability to integrate certain of its non-u.s. operations or access cash earned by the acquired u.s. corporation's non-u.s. subsidiaries, in each case without incurring substantial u.s. tax liabilities. we believe that, based on current law, section 7874 did not to apply to us after the merger because the former ihs stockholders held, for purposes of the relevant section 7874 rules, less than 60% of our common shares (by vote and value) after the merger by reason of holding ihs common stock. however, there is limited guidance regarding the application of section 7874, and there can be no assurance that the irs will agree with the position that the former ihs stockholders will be treated as holding less than 60% of our common shares (by vote and value) after the merger by reason of holding ihs 23 table of contents common stock for purposes of the ownership test. further, a subsequent change in law might cause ihs stockholders to be treated as owning either 60% or more, or 80% or more, of our common shares after the merger for u.s. federal income tax purposes, including with retroactive effect to the date of the merger. if ihs stockholders were treated as having acquired 80% of our common shares for u.s. federal income tax purposes, ihs markit would be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and we could be liable for substantial additional u.s. federal income tax on its operations and income following the closing of the merger. additionally, non-u.s. shareholders would be subject to u.s. withholding tax on the gross amount of any dividends we pay to such shareholders. if ihs stockholders were treated as having acquired 60% or more (but less than 80%) of our common shares for u.s. federal income tax purposes, while ihs markit would not be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could be subject to the other adverse tax consequences described above. finally, recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of u.s. corporate tax residence, including in such a way as would cause ihs markit to be treated as a u.s. corporation if the management and control of ihs markit and its affiliates were determined to be located primarily in the united states, or would reduce the ownership percentage at or above which ihs markit would be treated as a u.s. corporation. thus, the rules under section 7874 and other relevant provisions of u.s. tax law could change on a prospective or retroactive basis in a manner that could adversely affect us. audits, investigations and tax proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to direct and indirect taxes in numerous jurisdictions. we calculate and provide for such taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. the amount of tax we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. we have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of tax laws, but tax accounting often involves complex matters and judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe that we have complied with all applicable tax laws, we have been and expect to continue to be subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, and tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with some of our interpretations of applicable tax law. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits to determine the appropriateness of our tax provisions. however, our judgments may not be sustained on completion of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. future changes in tax laws, including in the rates of taxation, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our tax liabilities and effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. tax laws, including tax rates, in the jurisdictions in which we operate may change as a result of macroeconomic, political or other factors, and such changes could have a negative impact on our profitability. for example, the u.s. congress, the organisation for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ) and other government agencies have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. one example is in the area of base erosion and profit shifting. the g20 finance ministers have endorsed a comprehensive plan set forth by the oecd to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting. as a result, the tax laws in the united states, the united kingdom, and other countries in which we operate could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect us. in addition, changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may be unpredictable, particularly in less developed markets, and could become more stringent, which could materially adversely affect our tax position. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. on december 22, 2017, a law commonly known as the tax cuts and jobs act ( tcja ) was enacted in the united states. among other things, the tcja reduces the u.s. corporate income tax rate to 21 percent and implements a new system of taxation for non-u.s. earnings, including by imposing a one-time tax on the deemed repatriation of undistributed earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries. while we are currently evaluating the effects of the tcja, including the one-time deemed repatriation tax and the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, we expect that the tcja will have a favorable impact on our financial results beginning in 2018. in the absence of guidance on various uncertainties and ambiguities in the application of certain provisions of the tcja, we will use what we believe are reasonable interpretations and assumptions in applying the tcja, but it is possible that the irs could issue subsequent guidance or take positions on audit that differ from our prior interpretations and assumptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash tax liabilities, results of operations, and financial condition. 24 table of contents bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our common shares, including enforcing judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. we are organized under the laws of bermuda, as a bermuda exempted company. as a result, our corporate affairs and the rights of holders of our common shares are governed by bermuda law, including the companies act 1981 (the companies act ), which differs in some material respects from laws typically applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. generally, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies typically do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. class actions are not available under bermuda law. the circumstances in which derivative actions may be available under bermuda law are substantially more proscribed and less clear than they would be to shareholders of u.s. corporations. the bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. furthermore, consideration would be given by a bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company's shareholders than that which actually approved it. when the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the supreme court of bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company's affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty. in addition, the rights of holders of our common shares and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the united states, particularly the state of delaware. it is also doubtful whether courts in bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the united states, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. therefore, holders of our common shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the united states. we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. these provisions provide for: a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; directors only to be removed for cause; restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated; our board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval; and an affirmative vote of 66-2/3% of our voting shares for certain business combination transactions which have not been approved by our board of directors. these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party's offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to potential losses from adverse changes in market rates and prices. we are exposed to market risk primarily in the form of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, and credit risk. we actively monitor these exposures. in order to manage these exposures, we use derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forwards. our objective is to reduce fluctuations in revenue, earnings, and cash flows resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. we do not use derivatives for speculative purposes. interest rate risk as of november 30, 2017 , we had no significant investments other than cash and cash equivalents and therefore we were not exposed to material interest rate risk on investments. our 2016 revolving facility, our 2016 term loan, and our 2017 term loan borrowings are subject to variable interest rates. we use interest rate swaps in order to fix a portion of our variable rate debt as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. as of november 30, 2017, we had $2.517 billion of floating-rate debt at a 2.85 percent weighted-average interest rate, of which $400 million was subject to effective floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points applied to our floating rate indebtedness would increase annual interest expense by approximately $21 million ($25 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). foreign currency exchange rate risk our consolidated financial statements are expressed in u.s. dollars, but a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than u.s. dollars. changes in the exchange rates for such currencies into u.s. dollars can affect our revenues, earnings, and the carrying values of our assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet, either positively or negatively. fluctuations in foreign currency rates decreased our revenues by approximately $27 million , $50 million , and $46 million for the years ended november 30, 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 , respectively, and had no material impact on operating income for the same respective periods. the translation effects of changes in exchange rates in our consolidated balance sheet are recorded within the cumulative translation adjustment component of our shareholders' equity. in 2017 , we recorded a cumulative translation gain of $346 million , reflecting changes in exchange rates of various currencies compared to the u.s. dollar. a hypothetical ten percent change in the currencies that we are primarily exposed to would have impacted our 2017 revenue by approximately $85 million and would not have had a material impact on operating income. approximately 75% of total revenue was earned in subsidiaries with the u.s. dollar as the functional currency. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk associated with cash equivalents, foreign currency and interest rate derivatives, and trade receivables. we do not believe that our cash equivalents or foreign currency and interest rate derivatives present significant credit risks because the counterparties to the instruments consist of major financial institutions that are financially sound, and we manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty. substantially all trade receivable balances are unsecured. the concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited by the large number of customers in our customer base and their dispersion across various industries and geographic areas. we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain an allowance for potential credit losses.risk factors 13 risk factors - we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information. employees as of november 30, 2018 , we had approximately 14,900 employees located in 35 countries around the world. seasonality our business has seasonal aspects. our first quarter generally has our lowest quarterly levels of revenue and profit. we also experience event-driven seasonality in our business; for instance, ceraweek, an annual energy conference, is typically held in the second quarter of each year. another example is the biennial release of the boiler pressure vessel code ( bpvc ) engineering standard, which generates revenue for us predominantly in the third quarter of every other year. the most recent bpvc release was in the third quarter of 2017. financial information about segments see item 8 - financial statements and supplementary data - notes to consolidated financial statements - note 17 in part ii of this form 10-k for information with respect to each segment's revenues, profits, and total assets and for information with respect to our revenues and long-lived assets for the u.s., u.k., and the rest of the world in aggregate. see also item 1a. risk factors - our international operations are subject to risks relating to worldwide operations. available information ihs markit files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the sec maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (including ihs markit). the sec's website is www.sec.gov. we maintain an internet website for investors at http://investor.ihsmarkit.com. on this website, we make available, free of charge, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, forms 3, 4, and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and all amendments to any of those reports or filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the sec. unless specifically incorporated by reference, information on our website is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k. also available on the website for investors at http://investor.ihsmarkit.com are our amended and restated bye-laws, corporate governance guidelines, audit committee charter, risk committee charter, human resources committee charter, nominating and governance committee charter, business code of conduct, and compliance hotline and reporting misconduct policy. our corporate governance documents are available in print, free of charge to any shareholder who requests them, by contacting ihs markit investor relations and corporate communications at 15 inverness way east, englewood, co 80112 or by calling (303) 790-0600. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information provided in this form 10-k, you should carefully consider the risks described in this section. the risks described below are not the only risks that could adversely affect our business; other risks currently deemed immaterial or additional risks not currently known to us could also adversely affect us. these and other factors could have a material adverse effect on the value of your investment in our securities, meaning that you could lose all or part of your investment. note that this section includes forward-looking statements and future expectations as of the date of this form 10-k. this discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii of this form 10-k. our business performance might not be sufficient for us to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide publicly. we provide full-year financial guidance to the public based upon our assumptions regarding our expected financial performance. for example, we provide assumptions regarding our ability to grow revenue, our expenses and tax rates, and our ability to achieve our profitability targets. while we believe that our annual financial guidance provides investors and analysts 13 table of contents with insight to our view of the company's future performance, such financial guidance is based on assumptions that may not always prove to be accurate and may vary from actual results. if we fail to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide, or if we find it necessary to revise such guidance during the year, the market value of our common shares could be adversely affected. we operate in competitive markets, which may adversely affect our financial results. while we do not believe that we have a direct competitor across all of the industries we serve, we face competition across all markets for our products and services, including by larger or smaller competitors that may be able to adopt new or emerging technologies to address customer requirements more quickly than we can. we may also face competition from incumbent companies with strong market share in specific markets or organizations and businesses that have not traditionally competed with us but that could adapt their products and services or utilize significant financial and information-gathering resources, recognized brands, or technological expertise to begin competing with us. we believe that competitors are continuously enhancing their products and services, developing new products and services, investing in technology, and consolidating or acquiring new businesses to better serve the needs of their existing customers and to attract new customers. increased competition could require us to make additional capital investments. the impact of cost-cutting pressures across the industries we serve could lower demand for our products and services, as customers intensify their focus on containing or reducing costs. our competitors may choose to sell products and services competitive with ours at lower prices or bundled with other offerings, which may require us to reduce the prices of our offerings or offer additional products or services to compete. an increase in our capital investments, price reductions for our offerings or reduced spending by our customers could negatively impact our revenues, margins and results of operations. we may be unsuccessful in achieving our growth and profitability objectives. we seek to achieve our growth objectives by enhancing our offerings to meet the needs of our customers through organic development, including by delivering integrated workflow platforms, cross-selling our products across our existing customer base and acquiring new customers, entering into strategic partnerships, acquisitions, and by implementing operational efficiency initiatives. if we are unable to successfully execute on our strategies to achieve our growth objectives or drive operational efficiencies, or if we experience higher than expected operating costs that cannot be adjusted accordingly, our growth and profitability rates could be adversely affected. an additional factor that may adversely affect our growth rates is global economic uncertainty, particularly in our energy and financial end markets. our resources and financial markets segments in particular may be adversely affected by industry dynamics, including decisions on the part of our customers to defer capital spending in uncertain economic environments. if we are unable to develop successful new products and services or adapt to rapidly changing technology, our business could suffer serious harm. the information services industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing regulatory requirements. our growth and success depend upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to keep pace with such changes and developments and to meet changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs. the process of developing our products and services is complex and may become increasingly complex and expensive in the future due to the introduction of new platforms, operating systems, technologies and customer expectations. current areas of significant technological change include artificial intelligence, mobility, cloud-based computing, blockchain, speed of availability of data, and the storing, processing, and analysis of large amounts of data. we may find it difficult or costly to update our services and software and to develop new products and services quickly enough to work effectively with new or changed technologies and regulations, to keep the pace with evolving industry standards or to meet our customers' needs. if we are unable to develop new products or services, or to successfully enhance or update existing products and services, we may not be able to grow our business as quickly as we anticipate. fraudulent or unpermitted data access or other cyber-security or privacy breaches may negatively impact our business and harm our reputation. many of our products and services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data. similar to other global multinational companies that provide services online, we experience cyber-threats, cyber-attacks and security breaches of varying degrees of severity on our information technology systems, which can include unauthorized attempts to access, disable, improperly modify or degrade our information, systems and networks, the introduction of computer viruses and other malicious codes and fraudulent phishing e-mails that seek to misappropriate data and information or install malware onto users' computers. for example, in 2018, unauthorized actors obtained access to 14 table of contents certain employee email accounts by sending phishing messages, a breach that we determined was not material to our business or operations. cyber-threats in particular vary in technique and sources, are persistent, frequently change, and increasingly are more sophisticated, targeted, and difficult to detect and prevent against. other recent, highly publicized data security breaches and cyber-attacks of other companies have further heightened awareness of this issue and may embolden individuals or groups to target our systems. while we have dedicated resources at our company who are responsible for maintaining appropriate levels of cyber-security and training our business teams on cyber-security, and while we utilize third party technology products and services to help identify, protect, and remediate our information technology systems and infrastructure against security breaches and cyber-incidents, our responsive and precautionary measures may not be adequate or effective to prevent, identify, or mitigate attacks by hackers, foreign governments, or other actors or breaches caused by employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. we are also dependent on security measures that some of our third-party suppliers and customers are taking to protect their own systems and infrastructures. for example, our outsourcing of certain functions requires us to sometimes grant network access to third-party suppliers. if our third-party suppliers do not maintain adequate security measures, do not require their sub-contractors to maintain adequate security measures, do not perform as anticipated and in accordance with contractual requirements, or become targets of cyber-attacks, we may experience operational difficulties and increased costs. in addition, if a customer experiences a data security breach that results in the misappropriation of some of our proprietary business information, our reputation could be harmed, even if we were not responsible for the breach. while we maintain what we believe is sufficient insurance coverage that may (subject to certain policy terms and conditions, including deductibles) cover certain aspects of third-party security and cyber-risks and business interruption, our insurance coverage may not always cover all costs or losses. we collect, store, use, and transmit our employees', customers', and suppliers' data on our networks, including information from public and private sources, intellectual property, proprietary business information, personally identifiable information, and information that may be confidential, sensitive, or material and nonpublic. we rely on a system of physical and technological security measures, internal processes and controls, contractual precautions and business continuity plans, and policies, procedures, and training to protect the confidentiality of such data. it is not always possible to prevent misconduct or misuse of such information or data by employees or third parties. the precautions we take to detect and prevent such activity, including trading and contractual obligations, may not be effective in all cases. any fraudulent, malicious, or accidental breach of data security controls could also result in unintentional disclosure of, or unauthorized access to, or misappropriation or misuse of, customer, vendor, employee, or other confidential or sensitive data or information, which could potentially result in additional costs to our company to enhance security or to respond to occurrences, lost sales, violations of regulations or laws relating to the privacy of personal or payment card information, penalties, or litigation. similarly, if any confidential or embargoed data is inadvertently disclosed or deliberately misused prior to our authorization, customers and financial markets could be negatively affected, and any resulting need to change our procedures for handling and sharing this data may diminish the value of such offerings. in addition, media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities to our systems or those of our third-party suppliers, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact our reputation and materially impact our business. misappropriation, misuse, improper modification, or disclosure, destruction, corruption, or unavailability of data and information or ransom demands due to cyber-attacks or other security breaches could damage our brand and reputation, and customers and data suppliers could lose confidence in our processes, security measures, and reliability, which would harm our ability to retain customers and data suppliers and gain new ones. we could also face litigation or other claims from impacted individuals as well as substantial regulatory sanctions or fines. we may be required to incur significant costs to minimize or alleviate the effects of cyber-attacks or other security vulnerabilities and to protect against damage caused by disruptions, security breaches, or cyber-attacks of the nature we have already incurred, in the future. if any of these were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we could experience system failures or capacity constraints that could negatively impact our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex systems, relying on people, processes, and technology to function effectively. most of our products and services are delivered electronically, and our customers rely on our ability to process and deliver substantial quantities of information and other services on computer-based networks. some elements of these systems have been outsourced to third-party providers, including critical data inputs received from third-party suppliers. some of our systems have been consolidated for the purpose of enhancing scalability and efficiency, which increases our dependency on a smaller number of systems. any failure of, or significant interruption, delay or disruption to, or security breaches affecting, our systems could result in: disruption to our 15 table of contents operations; significant expense to repair, replace or remediate systems, equipment or facilities; a loss of customers; legal or regulatory claims, proceedings or fines; damage to our reputation; and harm to our business. system interruption, failures or security breaches could result from a wide variety of causes, including: human error, natural disasters (such as hurricanes and floods), infrastructure or network failures (including failures at third-party data centers, by third party cloud-computing providers, or of aging technology assets), disruptions to the internet, malicious attacks or cyber incidents such as unauthorized access, ransomware, loss or destruction of data (including confidential and/or personal customer information), account takeovers, computer viruses or other malicious code, and the loss or failure of systems over which we have no control. in addition, significant growth of our customer base or increases in the number of products or services or in the speed at which we are required to provide products and services may also strain our systems in the future. we may also face significant increases in our use of power and data storage and may experience a shortage of capacity and increased costs associated with such usage. we may also face additional strain on our systems and networks due to aging or end-of-life technology that we have not yet updated or replaced. while we generally have disaster recovery and business continuity plans that utilize industry standards and best practices for much of our business, including back-up facilities for our primary data centers, a testing program and staff training, our systems are not always fully redundant and our disaster recovery and business continuity plans may not always be sufficient or effective. in the past when we have experienced slow operation of our systems or service interruptions, some of our products or services have been unavailable for a limited period of time, but none of these occurrences have been material to our business. however, any of the above factors could individually or in the aggregate adversely affect our business, and our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all failures, interruptions, delays, disruptions or security breaches. design defects, errors, failures or delays associated with our products or services could negatively impact our business. despite testing, software, products and services that we develop, license or distribute may contain errors or defects when first released or when major new updates or enhancements are released that cause the software, product or service to operate incorrectly or less effectively. many of our products and services also rely on data and services provided by third-party providers over which we have no control and may be provided to us with defects, errors or failures. we may also experience delays while developing and introducing new products and services for various reasons, such as difficulties in licensing data inputs or adapting to particular operating environments. defects, errors or delays in our products or services that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could result in rejection or delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, a lower rate of license renewals or upgrades, diversion of development resources, product liability claims or regulatory actions, or increases in service and support costs. we may also need to expend significant capital resources to eliminate or work around defects, errors, failures or delays. in each of these ways, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. we depend on externally obtained content and services to support our offerings, and the inability to continue to obtain access could prove harmful to our business. we obtain data from a wide variety of external sources that we transform into critical information and analytics and use to create integrated product and service offerings for our customers. many of our offerings include content and information that is purchased or licensed from third parties, including from public record sources or parties that are our customers or our competitors, or obtained using independent contractors. in addition, we often rely on third-party dealers to sell or distribute some of our offerings, such as in locations where we do not maintain a sales office or sales teams or for methods of distribution to which we do not have direct access. for instance, our industry standards offerings that are part of our product design workflow rely on information licensed from standards developing organizations, and many of our financial institution customers provide us with data which is a critical input for many of our financial services offerings. we believe that the content licensed from many of these third parties might not be able to be obtained from alternate sources on favorable terms, if at all. our license agreements with these third parties are often nonexclusive and many are terminable on less than one year's notice. in addition, many of these third parties compete with one another and with us, including by providing data to our competitors or becoming competitors themselves, which may cause them to reduce their willingness to supply, or increase the price of, data and content that are important to our products and services. our competitors could also enter into exclusive contracts with our data sources, which may preclude us from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data. we could also become subject to legislative, regulatory, judicial or contractual restrictions on the use of data, such as if such data is not collected by the third parties in a way which allows us to process the data or use it legally. we are also limited in our ability to monitor and direct the activities of our independent contractors, but if any actions or business practices of these individuals or entities violate our policies or procedures or are otherwise deemed inappropriate or illegal, we could lose access to the data they collect, as well as be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions, or reputational damage. 16 table of contents if we lose access to, or are restricted in receiving, a significant number of data sources and cannot replace the data through alternative sources or we are unable to obtain information licensed to us consistently, in a timely manner, or on terms commercially reasonable to us, specific products, services and customer solutions may be impacted or disrupted and our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. our relationships with third-party service providers may not be successful or may change, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we have commercial relationships with third-party service providers whose capabilities complement our own, for integral services, software and technologies. many of our products and services are developed using third-party service providers' data or services, or are made available to our customers or are integrated for our customers' use through integral infrastructure, information and technology solutions provided by such third-party service providers. for example, we outsource certain functions involving our data transformation process and data hosting functions to business partners who we believe offer us deep expertise in these areas, as well as scalability and cost effective services. in some cases, these providers are also our competitors or may in the future become our competitors as we expand our product and service offerings, which could impact our relationships. the priorities and objectives of these providers may differ from ours, which may make us vulnerable to changes or terminations of our commercial relationships and could reduce our access over time to information and technology. we have little control over these third-party providers, which increases our vulnerability to errors, failures, interruptions or disruptions or problems with their services or technologies. we also face risks that one or more service providers may perform work that deviates from our standards or that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. any errors, failures to perform, interruptions, delays or terminations of service experienced in connection with these third-party providers, or if we do not obtain the expected benefits from our relationships with third-party service providers, we may be less competitive, our products and services may be negatively affected, and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. some of the critical information we use in our offerings is publicly available in raw form at little or no cost. the internet, widespread availability of sophisticated search engines, pervasive wireless data delivery, and public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information and solutions have simplified the process of locating, gathering, and disseminating data, potentially diminishing the perceived value of our offerings. while we believe our offerings are distinguished by such factors as currency, accuracy and completeness, and our analysis and other added value, our customers could choose to obtain the information and solutions they need from public, regulatory, governmental or other sources. to the extent that customers become more self-sufficient, demand for our offerings may be reduced, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. the loss of, or the inability to attract and retain, key personnel could impair our future success. our future success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees, including our experts in research and analysis, information technology, the industries in which we operate, and colleagues in sales, marketing, product development, operations, technology and management, including our executive officers. we do not carry any key person insurance policies that could offset potential loss of service under applicable circumstances. we must maintain our ability to attract, motivate, compensate and retain highly qualified colleagues in order to support our customers and achieve business results. the loss of the services of key personnel and any inability to recruit effective replacements or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain highly qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information. our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, processes, methodologies and information. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws and nondisclosure, license, assignment and confidentiality arrangements to establish, maintain and protect our proprietary rights as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose assets we license. however, we cannot assure that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, are adequate to prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation, or theft of our intellectual property. intellectual property laws in various jurisdictions in which we operate are also subject to change at any time and could further restrict our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. in particular, a portion of our revenues are derived from jurisdictions where adequately protecting intellectual property rights may prove more challenging or impossible. we may also not be able to detect unauthorized uses or take timely and effective steps to remedy unauthorized conduct. to prevent or respond to unauthorized 17 table of contents uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation or other proceedings and we may not ultimately prevail. any failure to establish, maintain or protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may be exposed to litigation related to products we make available to customers and we may face legal liability or damage to our reputation. companies in our industry have increasingly pursued patent and other intellectual property protection for their data, technologies and business methods. as we do not actively monitor third-party intellectual property, if any of our data, technologies or business methods are covered or become covered by third-party intellectual property protection and used without license or if we misuse data, technologies or business methods outside the terms of our licenses, we may be subject to claims or threats of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of intellectual property rights, or have the use of our data, technologies and business methods otherwise challenged. we have also in the past been, and may in the future be, called upon to defend partners, customers, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our agreements. responding to such claims or threats, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time and resources, result in costly or unfavorable litigation or settlements that could exceed the limits of applicable insurance coverage, delay operations of our business, require redesign of our products and services, or require new royalty and licensing agreements. it could also damage our reputation for any reason which could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, employees, and information suppliers. any such factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to litigation and investigation risks which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we are from time to time involved in various litigation matters and claims, including regulatory proceedings, administrative proceedings, lawsuits, governmental investigations, and contract disputes, as they relate to our products, services, and business. we may face potential commercial or intellectual property claims or liability for, among other things, breach of contract, defamation, libel, fraud, or negligence, with respect to the use of our offerings by our customers, particularly if the information in our offerings was incorrect for any reason, or if it were misused or used inappropriately. we may also face employment-related litigation and investigations, including claims of age discrimination, sexual harassment, gender discrimination, racial discrimination, immigration violations, or other local, state, and federal labor, environmental, health, and safety violations. in addition, we may receive routine requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with their regulatory or investigatory authority. because of the uncertain nature of litigation, investigations, and insurance coverage decisions, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. litigation and investigations are very costly, and the costs associated with prosecuting and defending litigation and investigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in light of the potential cost and uncertainty involved in litigation and investigations, we may settle matters even when we believe we have a meritorious defense. we are unable to estimate precisely the ultimate dollar amount of exposure to loss or the amounts we actually pay in connection with litigation and investigation matters, due to inherent uncertainties and the inherent shortcomings of the estimation process, the uncertainties involved in litigation, and other factors. our use of open source software could result in litigation or impose unanticipated restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services. we use open source software in our technology, most often as small components within a larger product or service. open source code is also contained in some third-party software we rely on. the terms of many open source licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. or other courts, and these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services, license the software on unfavorable terms, require us to re-engineer our products and services or take other remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we could also be subject to suits by parties claiming breach of the terms of licenses, which could be costly for us to defend. our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. the integrity and external perceptions of our brand and reputation are key to our ability to remain a trusted source of products and services and to attract and retain customers. reputational damage from negative perceptions or publicity, or 18 table of contents actual, alleged, or perceived issues regarding any of our products or services, could damage our reputation and relationships with customers, prospects, and the public generally. although we monitor developments, including social media, for areas of potential risk to our brand and reputation, negative perceptions or publicity may adversely impact our credibility as a trusted source for critical information, analytics, and insight and may have a negative impact on our business. we enter into redistribution arrangements that allow other firms to represent certain of our products and services as partners or agents. it is difficult to monitor whether the representation of our products and services by such partners or agents is accurate. poor representation of our products and services by our partners or agents could have an adverse effect on our brand, reputation, and our business. cost-cutting pressures and consolidation in our customer markets could lower demand for our products and services. our customers are focused on controlling or reducing spending as a result of the continued financial challenges and market uncertainty many of them face. customers within the financial services, shipping and energy industries in particular strive to reduce their operating costs, and may use strategies that result in a reduction in their spending on our products and service, such as by consolidating their spending with fewer or lower cost vendors or by internally developing products, services and functionality. in addition, mergers or consolidations among our customers could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers, which could cause them to discontinue or reduce their use of our products and services. all such developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. declining activity levels in our core end markets, or weak or declining financial performance of companies in our end markets, could lower demand for certain of our products and services. many of our products and services are dependent upon the robustness of the core end markets in which we operate, as well as the financial health of the participants in those markets and the general economy. in addition, a proportion of our revenue in our financial services segment is variable and depends upon transaction volumes, investment levels (i.e., assets under management), or the number of positions we value. unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions or lower activity levels in the end markets in which we operate could result in cancellations, reductions, or delays for our products and services or in lower revenues, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. some of our products and services typically face long selling cycles to secure new contracts, which require significant resource commitments and result in long lead times before we receive revenue. for certain new products and services, and especially for complex products and services, we often face long selling cycles to secure new contracts and customers and there can be a long preparation period before we commence providing products and services. for instance, some of our financial services products and services can require active engagement with potential customers and can take 12 months or more to reach deal closure. some products' success is also dependent on building a network of users, and may not be profitable while such a network is developing. we can incur significant business development expenses during the selling cycle and we may not succeed in winning a new customer's business, in which case we receive no revenue and may receive no reimbursement for such expenses. selling cycle periods have historically lengthened and could lengthen further, causing us to incur even higher business development expenses with no guarantee of winning a new customer's business. even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new customer, we may not be successful in obtaining contractual commitments after the selling cycle or in maintaining contractual commitments after the implementation cycle, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. if we are unable to consistently renew and enter into new subscriptions for our offerings, our results could weaken. the majority of our revenue is recurring, typically based on subscription agreement to our offerings. in 2018, approximately 84 percent of our revenues were recurring fixed and recurring variable revenues. our operating results depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high renewal rates on our existing subscription base and to enter into new subscription arrangements at acceptable prices and other commercially acceptable terms. failure to meet one or more of these subscription objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. changes in the legislative, regulatory, and commercial environments in which we operate may adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, use, transfer, publish, or sell data, subject us to increased regulation or decreased demand of our products and services, or prevent us from offering certain products or services, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 19 table of contents certain types of information we collect, compile, store, use, transfer, publish and/or sell, and certain of our products and services, are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions in which we operate. there is an increasing public concern regarding privacy, data, and consumer protection issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection laws has been increasing. certain types of information we collect, compile, use, and publish, including offerings in our automotive businesses, are subject to laws and regulations by governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. these laws and regulations pertain primarily to personally identifiable information and personal data (i.e . , information relating to an identified or identifiable individual), constrain whether and how we collect that data, how that data may be used and stored, and whether, to whom, and where that data may be transferred, as well as notification and other requirements that must be followed in the event data is accessed by unauthorized persons. to conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders, and consequently are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and data security. many jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, such as the european union general data protection regulation (the gdpr ) and the cyber-security law adopted by china in june 2017, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. these laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and increasingly conflict among the various countries in which we operate, which has resulted in greater compliance risk and cost for us. it is possible that we could be prohibited or constrained from collecting or disseminating certain types of data or from providing certain products or services. if we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant litigation, civil or criminal penalties, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions or fines in one or more jurisdictions. for example, a failure to comply with the gdpr could result in fines up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of annual global revenues. in addition, many of our customers rely on many of our products and services to meet their operational, regulatory, or compliance needs. our financial industry customers, for example, operate within a highly regulated environment and must comply with governmental and quasi-governmental legislation, regulations, directives, and standards. complex and ever-evolving legislative and regulatory changes around the world that impact our customers' industries may impact how we provide products and services to our customers and may affect the structure and regulation of, and possibly the demand for, certain products and services we offer, such as indices, benchmark administration, intermediating and clearing services, and offerings in which we function as a third-party service provider. it is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding laws, rules, regulations or standards affecting our business, our products and services, and our customers. there can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules, regulations, or standards, or fail to obtain regulatory approval to conduct certain operations or provide certain products or services, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. additionally, we may be required to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, rules, or regulations in various jurisdictions, or investigate, defend, or remedy actual or alleged violations, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in materially higher compliance costs to us. new legislation, or a significant change in laws, rules, regulations, or standards could also result in some of our products and services becoming obsolete or prohibited, reduce demand for our products and services, increase expenses as we modify our products and services to comply with new requirements and retain relevancy, impose limitations on our operations, and increase compliance or litigation expense, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operations are subject to risks relating to worldwide operations, and our compliance and risk management methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. operating in many jurisdictions around the world, we may be affected by numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal and regulatory regimes, including: changes in tax rates and tax laws or their interpretation, including changes related to tax holidays or tax incentives; trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including export controls and economic sanctions laws; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; political conditions and events, including embargoes; different liability standards and legal systems that may be less developed and less predictable than those in the united states and the united kingdom, restrictive actions by the united states, the united kingdom, the european union, and foreign governments that could limit our ability to provide services in specific countries; and potential noncompliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations. we must also manage social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations; difficulties with local or grassroots activism; difficulties in penetrating new markets because of established and entrenched competitors; uncertainties of obtaining data and creating products and services that are relevant to particular geographic markets; lack of recognition of our brands, products, or services; unavailability of local joint venture partners; restrictions or limitations on outsourcing contracts or services abroad; differing levels of data privacy and intellectual property protection in various 20 table of contents jurisdictions; potential adverse tax consequences on the repatriation of funds and from taxation reform affecting multinational companies; and exposure to adverse government action in countries where we may conduct reporting activities. because of the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights. compliance with diverse legal and regulatory requirements is costly and time-consuming, and requires significant resources. violations could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions, prohibitions, suspensions, or restrictions on doing business and damage to our reputation. as we operate our business around the world, we must manage the potential conflicts between locally accepted business practices in any given jurisdiction and our obligations to comply with laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws or regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and the uk bribery act 2010 (the ukba ). the u.s., u.k., and other foreign agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against companies for violations of export controls, the fcpa, the ukba, and other laws, rules, sanctions, embargoes, and regulations, including those established by the office of foreign assets control ( ofac ). for example, the united states, the european union, and other countries have imposed significant sanctions measures against russia targeting the energy, defense, and financial sectors of russia's economy, as well as specific russian officials and businesses that they own. although we believe all our business activities are permissible under all current applicable laws, rules, sanctions, embargoes and regulations, we may be required to discontinue or limit our business activities in the future. further, the implementation of new legislation or regulations, or changes in or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies, could require us to incur significant compliance costs and impede our ability to operate, expand, and enhance our products and services as necessary to remain competitive and grow our business. our ability to comply with applicable complex and changing laws and rules, including anti-corruption laws, is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, surveillance, audit and reporting systems, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program intended to promote and facilitate compliance with all applicable laws which includes, among other things, employee training and the creation of appropriate policies and procedures defining employee behavior that mandate adherence to laws. we also have policies, procedures, and controls designed to comply with all applicable laws, rules, sanctions, embargoes, and regulations. however, we cannot assure you that these measures will always be effective, and we may fail to appropriately monitor or evaluate the risks to which we are or may be exposed or identify business activities that violate laws, rules, sanctions, embargoes, and regulations. we may also not always be successful in detecting if our employees, contractors, agents, and suppliers, including those independent companies to which we outsource certain business operations, are engaging in misconduct, fraud, or other errors, or otherwise taking actions in violation of our policies, procedures, and controls. in addition, some of our risk management methods depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers, or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. that information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date, or properly evaluated. in case of non-compliance or alleged non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations by us or our employees, contractors, agents, or suppliers, we could be subject to investigations and proceedings that may be very expensive to defend and may result in criminal enforcement actions, penalties for non-compliance, or civil actions or lawsuits, including by customers, for damages which can be significant. any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. the u.k. electorate voted in favor of a u.k. exit from the e.u. in a referendum, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. the u.k. government held an in-or-out referendum on the united kingdom's membership of the european union in june 2016, which resulted in the electorate voting in favor of a u.k. exit from the european union ( brexit ). a process of negotiation is now taking place to determine the future terms of the united kingdom's relationship with the european union, with the united kingdom due to exit the european union on march 29, 2019. we are headquartered and tax domiciled in the united kingdom and conduct business in europe primarily through our u.k. subsidiaries. depending on the final terms of brexit, we could face new regulatory costs and challenges. for instance, the united kingdom could lose access to the single e.u. market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the european union on behalf of its members, and we may be required to move certain operations to other european union member states to maintain such access. a decline in trade could affect the attractiveness of the united kingdom as a global investment center and, as a result, could have a detrimental impact on u.k. growth. although we have an international customer base, we could be adversely affected by reduced growth and greater volatility in the pound sterling and the u.k. economy. changes to u.k. immigration policy could likewise occur as a result of brexit. although the united kingdom would likely retain its diverse pool of talent, london's role as a global financial center may decline, particularly if financial institutions shift their operations to the european union and the e.u. financial services passport is not maintained. any adjustments we make to our business and operations as of brexit could 21 table of contents result in significant time and expense to complete. any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our international operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations. we operate in many countries around the world and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. in 2018, we generated approximately 40 percent of our revenues from sales outside the united states. approximately 20 percent of our revenue was transacted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar in 2018. we earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets, and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including, but not limited to, the british pound, the euro, the canadian dollar, the singapore dollar, and the indian rupee. as we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses will likely be incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related products and services. an increase in the value of certain currencies against the u.s. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at offshore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local currency. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues, income, expenses, and the value of assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. we may use derivative financial instruments to reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. nevertheless, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other major currencies can materially affect our net operating revenues, operating income, and the value of balance sheet items denominated in other currencies. international hostilities, terrorist or cyber-terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics, and infrastructure disruptions could prevent us from effectively serving our customers and thus adversely affect our results of operations. acts of terrorist violence, cyber-terrorism, political unrest, war, civil disturbance, armed regional and international hostilities and international responses to these hostilities, natural disasters, including hurricanes or floods, global health risks or pandemics or the threat of or perceived potential for these events could have a negative impact on us. these events could adversely affect our customers' levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. these events also pose significant risks to our employees and our physical facilities and operations around the world, whether the facilities are ours or those of our third-party service providers or customers. by disrupting communications and travel and increasing the difficulty of obtaining and retaining highly skilled and qualified personnel, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products and services to our customers. extended disruptions of electricity, other public utilities or network services at our facilities, as well as system failures at our facilities or otherwise, could also adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. we may be unable to protect our employees, facilities and systems against all such occurrences. we generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, conflicts and wars. if these disruptions prevent us from effectively serving our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, alliances, or similar strategic relationships, or dispositions of any of our businesses, and the related integration or separation risks may disrupt or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. as part of our business strategy, we pursue selective acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies, or joint ventures, partnerships, alliances, or similar strategic transactions and relationships with third parties, to support our business, such as the merger of ihs and markit in june 2016 and the acquisition of ipreo, a leading financial services solutions and data provider, in august 2018. we may also undertake dispositions of certain of our businesses or products. we seek to be disciplined in a highly competitive market, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates on favorable terms to successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, alliances, or strategic relationships, or dispositions of businesses. in addition, we typically fund our acquisitions through our credit facilities. although we have capacity under our credit facilities, those may not be sufficient. therefore, future acquisitions or strategic relationships may require us to obtain additional financing through debt or equity, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all and could result in dilution. if such acquisitions or other strategic transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. the success of such transactions depends on, among other things, our ability to combine the various businesses in a manner that realizes anticipated synergies and exceeds the projected stand-alone cost savings and revenue growth trends we have identified, which is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. we expect to benefit from cost synergies driven by a number of strategies, such as integrating corporate functions, reducing technology spending by optimizing it infrastructure, using centers of excellence in cost-competitive locations, and optimizing real estate and other costs, as well as greater tax efficiencies from global management and global cash movement. we may also enjoy revenue synergies, including 22 table of contents product and service cross-selling, a more diversified and expanded product offering, and balance across geographic regions. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or other strategic transactions, or that they will perform at the levels we anticipate or achieve the cost or revenue synergies expected. the completion of such transactions may have material unanticipated difficulties, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, and diversion of management focus and attention, such as: difficulties or delays in integrating or remediating operations, systems, and technology and maintaining institutional knowledge and procedures; challenges in conforming standards, controls, procedures, accounting and other policies, business cultures, and compensation structures; difficulties in attracting and retaining key personnel; challenges in keeping existing, and developing new, customers and business relationships; difficulties or delays in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from the transaction; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of the company; unanticipated transaction and integration expenses; disruption of operations; unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures; contingent liabilities (including contingent tax liabilities) that are larger than expected; and potential unknown risks and liabilities, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses, including possible adverse tax consequences pursuant to changes in applicable tax laws, regulations, or other administrative guidance. many of these factors are outside of our control, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased expected revenues, and diversion of management time and energy. the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may take longer to realize than expected or may not be realized fully. we may also have difficulty integrating and operating businesses in countries and geographies where we do not currently have a significant presence, and acquisitions of businesses having a significant presence outside of the united states or the united kingdom will increase our exposure to risks of conducting operations in international markets. similarly, any divestitures will be accompanied by risks commonly encountered in the sale of businesses. as a result, the failure of acquisitions, dispositions, and other strategic transactions to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. future acquisitions or dispositions could also result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our financial condition. we may be subject to antitrust litigation or government investigation in the future, which may result in an award of money damages or force us to change the way we do business. in the past, certain of our business practices have been investigated by government antitrust or competition agencies, and we have on multiple occasions been sued by private parties for alleged violations of the antitrust and competition laws of various jurisdictions. following some of these actions, we have changed certain of our business practices to reduce the likelihood of future litigation. although each of these material prior legal actions has been resolved, there is a risk based upon the leading position of certain of our business operations or the relationships between our customers in using our products and services that we could, in the future, be the target of investigations by government entities or actions by private parties challenging the legality of our business practices. depending on the outcome of any future claims or investigations, we may be required to change the way we offer particular products or services, which could result in material disruptions to and costs incurred by our business, and we may be subject to substantial fines, penalties, damages or an injunction or other equitable remedies. future claims or investigations (regardless of outcome) may also affect how parties interact with us, including the manner or type of data provided to us and the manner or type of data products and services purchased from us. any antitrust or competition-related claim or investigation could be costly for our company in terms of time and expense incurred defending such claims or investigations. any of the above impacts, individually or together, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our indebtedness obligations and our other ongoing business obligations, which may result in defaults; 23 table of contents events of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt instruments, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable or require us to negotiate an amendment to financial or other covenants that could cause us to incur additional fees and expenses; sensitivity to interest rate increases on our variable rate outstanding indebtedness, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly; reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate, and the overall economy; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and increasing our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. this, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot be certain that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any future credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our indebtedness obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. we may incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, for many reasons, including to fund acquisitions. if we add additional indebtedness or other liabilities, the related risks that we face could intensify. a downgrade to our credit ratings would increase our cost of borrowing under our credit facilities and adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. we are party to a $2.0 billion senior unsecured revolving agreement that matures in june 2023 and a $1.206 billion term loan facility that matures in july 2021 (collectively, the senior credit facilities). the cost of borrowing under the senior credit facilities and our ability and the terms under which we may access the credit markets are affected by credit ratings assigned to us by the major credit rating agencies. these ratings are premised on our performance under assorted financial metrics and other measures of financial strength, business and financial risk, industry conditions, timeliness of financial reporting, and other factors determined by the credit rating agencies. our current ratings have served to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate access to a variety of lenders. however, there can be no assurance that our credit ratings or outlook will not be lowered in the future in response to adverse changes in these metrics and factors caused by our operating results or by actions that we take, that reduce our profitability, or that require us to incur additional indebtedness for items such as substantial acquisitions, significant increases in costs and capital spending in security and it systems, significant costs related to settlements of litigation or regulatory requirements, or by returning excess cash to shareholders through dividends or under our share repurchase program. a downgrade of our credit ratings would increase our cost of borrowing under the senior credit facilities, negatively affect our ability to access the capital markets on advantageous terms, or at all, negatively affect the trading price of our securities, and have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the price of our common shares may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. our share price is likely to fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market in general and a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. market fluctuations could result in volatility in the price of our common shares, one possible outcome of which could be a decline in the value of your investment. in addition, if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts or investors, or if we are perceived by the market to suffer material business or reputational damage, we may experience a significant decline in the trading price of our common shares. sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our shares to decline. sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. we have entered into a registration rights agreement with certain of our shareholders. these shareholders have the right to demand that we file a registration statement covering the offer and sale of their securities under the securities act, for as long as each holds unregistered securities. in addition, many of our largest shareholders are able to sell their common shares in the public market from time to time without registration, subject to limitations on the timing, amount, and method of those sales imposed by securities laws. sales of common shares by these or any other shareholders, including through the exercise of options and the sale of shares by our employees, could have a material adverse effect on the 24 table of contents trading price of our common shares. we cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares would have on the market price of our common shares. there is no assurance that the share repurchase programs approved by our board of directors will be fully consummated and any share repurchases under such programs may not result in enhanced value to shareholders and may negatively affect our share price. between august 2016 and october 2017, our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to $3.25 billion of ihs markit common shares through november 30, 2019. as of november 30, 2018, the remaining authorization under the share repurchase program was approximately $1.01 billion. under the share repurchase program, we are authorized to repurchase our common shares on the open market from time to time, in privately negotiated transactions, or through accelerated share repurchase agreements, subject to availability of common shares, price, market conditions, alternative uses of capital, and applicable regulatory requirements, at management's discretion. the share repurchase program does not, however, obligate us to repurchase any set dollar amount or number of shares and may be modified, suspended, or terminated at any time without prior notice. the share repurchase program carries risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, that the authorized purchases will not be completed within the expected timing or will not be made at the best possible price. in connection with our acquisition of ipreo, we suspended our share repurchase program until we return to our capital policy target leverage ratio of 2.0-3.0x. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will pursue or be successful in completing the execution of the share repurchase program in the time period authorized by our board of directors or any future repurchase program. additionally, the existence of a share repurchase program could cause the market price of our common shares to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our shares. as a result, any repurchase program may not ultimately result in enhanced value to our shareholders and may not prove to be the best use of our cash resources. the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) may not agree that, after the merger, ihs markit should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and/or that we are not subject to certain other adverse u.s. federal income tax laws relating to certain transactions that we may undertake in the future. in addition, future changes to u.s. tax laws could adversely affect us. although ihs markit is incorporated in bermuda and is and has been treated as tax resident in the united kingdom, the irs may assert that ihs markit should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the code (referred to as section 7874 ). section 7874 provides that if, following an acquisition of a u.s. corporation by a non-u.s. corporation, at least 80% of the acquiring non-u.s. corporation's stock (by vote or value) is considered to be held by former shareholders of the u.s. corporation by reason of holding stock of such u.s. corporation (such percentage referred to as the ownership percentage and such test referred to as the ownership test ) and the expanded affiliated group which includes the acquiring non-u.s. corporation does not have substantial business activities in the country in which the acquiring non-u.s. corporation is created or organized, then the non-u.s. corporation would be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes even though it is a corporation created and organized outside the united states. moreover, if the ownership percentage is 60% or more (but less than 80%), the acquired u.s. corporation and its u.s. affiliates could be prohibited from using foreign tax credits or other attributes to offset the income or gain recognized by reason of the transfer of property to a foreign related person or any income received or accrued by reason of a license of any property by the acquired u.s. corporation to a foreign related person. in addition, in such case, a combined company may have a limited ability to integrate certain of its non-u.s. operations or access cash earned by the acquired u.s. corporation's non-u.s. subsidiaries, in each case without incurring substantial u.s. tax liabilities. we believe that, based on current law, section 7874 did not to apply to us after the merger because the former ihs stockholders held, for purposes of the relevant section 7874 rules, less than 60% of our common shares (by vote and value) after the merger by reason of holding ihs common stock. however, there is limited guidance regarding the application of section 7874, and there can be no assurance that the irs will agree with the position that the former ihs stockholders will be treated as holding less than 60% of our common shares (by vote and value) after the merger by reason of holding ihs common stock for purposes of the ownership test. further, a subsequent change in law might cause ihs stockholders to be treated as owning either 60% or more, or 80% or more, of our common shares after the merger for u.s. federal income tax purposes, including with retroactive effect to the date of the merger. if ihs stockholders were treated as having acquired 80% of our common shares for u.s. federal income tax purposes, ihs markit would be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and we could be liable for substantial additional u.s. federal income tax on its operations and income following the closing of the merger. additionally, non-u.s. 25 table of contents shareholders would be subject to u.s. withholding tax on the gross amount of any dividends we pay to such shareholders. if ihs stockholders were treated as having acquired 60% or more (but less than 80%) of our common shares for u.s. federal income tax purposes, while ihs markit would not be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could be subject to the other adverse tax consequences described above. finally, recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of u.s. corporate tax residence, including in such a way as would cause ihs markit to be treated as a u.s. corporation if the management and control of ihs markit and its affiliates were determined to be located primarily in the united states, or would reduce the ownership percentage at or above which ihs markit would be treated as a u.s. corporation. thus, the rules under section 7874 and other relevant provisions of u.s. tax law could change on a prospective or retroactive basis in a manner that could adversely affect us. audits, investigations and tax proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to direct and indirect taxes in numerous jurisdictions. we calculate and provide for such taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. the amount of tax we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. we have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of tax laws, but tax accounting often involves complex matters and judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe that we have complied with all applicable tax laws, we have been and expect to continue to be subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, and tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with some of our interpretations of applicable tax law. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits to determine the appropriateness of our tax provisions. however, our judgments may not be sustained on completion of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. future changes in tax laws, including in the rates of taxation, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our tax liabilities and effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. tax laws, including tax rates, in the jurisdictions in which we operate may change as a result of macroeconomic, political or other factors, and such changes could have a negative impact on our profitability. for example, the u.s. congress, the organisation for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ) and other government agencies have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. one example is in the area of base erosion and profit shifting. the g20 finance ministers have endorsed a comprehensive plan set forth by the oecd to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting. as a result, the tax laws in the united states, the united kingdom, and other countries in which we operate could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect us. in addition, changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may be unpredictable, particularly in less developed markets, and could become more stringent, which could materially adversely affect our tax position. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. on december 22, 2017, a law commonly known as the tax cuts and jobs act ( tcja ) was enacted in the united states. among other things, the tcja reduces the u.s. federal corporate income tax rate to 21 percent and implements a new system of taxation for non-u.s. earnings, including by imposing a one-time tax on the deemed repatriation of undistributed earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries. our financial statements for the current year now reflect the effects of the tcja based on current guidance, including the effects of the one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated foreign earnings and the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, as well as the effects of the reduced rate of u.s. corporate income tax and certain other provisions of the tcja on our effective tax rate and operating results. however, in the absence of guidance on various uncertainties and ambiguities in the application of certain provisions of the tcja, we will use what we believe are reasonable interpretations and assumptions in applying the tcja, but it is possible that the irs as well as state tax authorities could issue subsequent guidance or take positions on audit that differ from our prior interpretations and assumptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash tax liabilities, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, the tcja could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could materially lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation on us and our business. we will continue to evaluate the effects of the tcja on us as federal and state tax authorities issue additional regulations and guidance, and if and when amendments and technical corrections are enacted with respect to the tcja, which could cause our consolidated financial results to differ from previous estimates and could materially affect our financial position. 26 table of contents bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our common shares, including enforcing judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. we are organized under the laws of bermuda, as a bermuda exempted company. as a result, our corporate affairs and the rights of holders of our common shares are governed by bermuda law, including the companies act 1981 (the companies act ), which differs in some material respects from laws typically applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. generally, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies typically do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. class actions are not available under bermuda law. the circumstances in which derivative actions may be available under bermuda law are substantially more proscribed and less clear than they would be to shareholders of u.s. corporations. the bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. furthermore, consideration would be given by a bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company's shareholders than that which actually approved it. when the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the supreme court of bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company's affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty. in addition, the rights of holders of our common shares and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the united states, particularly the state of delaware. it is also doubtful whether courts in bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the united states, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. therefore, holders of our common shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the united states. we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. these provisions provide for: directors only to be removed for cause; restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated; our board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval; and an affirmative vote of 66-2/3% of our voting shares for certain business combination transactions which have not been approved by our board of directors. these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party's offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to potential losses from adverse changes in market rates and prices. we are exposed to market risk primarily in the form of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, and credit risk. we actively monitor these exposures. in order to manage these exposures, we use derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forwards. our objective is to reduce fluctuations in revenue, earnings, and cash flows resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. we do not use derivatives for speculative purposes. interest rate risk as of november 30, 2018 , we had no significant investments other than cash and cash equivalents and therefore we were not exposed to material interest rate risk on investments. our 2018 revolving facility, our 2018 term loans, and our 364-day credit agreement are subject to variable interest rates. we use interest rate swaps in order to fix a portion of our variable rate debt as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. as of november 30, 2018, we had $2.413 billion of floating-rate debt at a 3.76 percent weighted-average interest rate, of which $400 million was subject to effective floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points applied to our floating rate indebtedness would increase annual interest expense by approximately $20 million ($24 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). foreign currency exchange rate risk our consolidated financial statements are expressed in u.s. dollars, but a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than u.s. dollars. changes in the exchange rates for such currencies into u.s. dollars can affect our revenues, earnings, and the carrying values of our assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet, either positively or negatively. fluctuations in foreign currency rates increased (decreased) our revenues by approximately $24 million , $(27) million , and $(50) million for the years ended november 30, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 , respectively, and had no material impact on operating income for the same respective periods. the translation effects of changes in exchange rates in our consolidated balance sheet are recorded within the cumulative translation adjustment component of our shareholders' equity. in 2018 , we recorded a cumulative translation loss of $220 million , reflecting changes in exchange rates of various currencies compared to the u.s. dollar. 48 table of contents a hypothetical ten percent change in the currencies that we are primarily exposed to would have impacted our 2018 revenue by approximately $91 million and would not have had a material impact on operating income. approximately 75% of total revenue was earned in subsidiaries with the u.s. dollar as the functional currency. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk associated with cash equivalents, foreign currency and interest rate derivatives, and trade receivables. we do not believe that our cash equivalents or foreign currency and interest rate derivatives present significant credit risks because the counterparties to the instruments consist of major financial institutions that are financially sound, and we manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty. substantially all trade receivable balances are unsecured. the concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited by the large number of customers in our customer base and their dispersion across various industries and geographic areas. we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain an allowance for potential credit losses.risk factors 14 risk factors - we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information. employees as of november 30, 2019 , we had more than 15,500 employees located in 38 countries around the world. seasonality our business has seasonal aspects. our first quarter generally has our lowest quarterly levels of revenue and profit. we also experience event-driven seasonality in our business; for instance, we typically hold our annual ceraweek, world petrochemical, and tpm conferences in the second quarter of each year. another example is the biennial release of the boiler pressure vessel code ( bpvc ) engineering standard, which generates revenue for us predominantly in the third quarter of every other year. the most recent bpvc release was in the third quarter of 2019. financial information about segments see item 8 - financial statements and supplementary data - notes to consolidated financial statements - note 17 in part ii of this form 10-k for information with respect to each segment's revenues, profits, and total assets and for information with respect to our revenues and long-lived assets for the u.s., u.k., and the rest of the world in aggregate. see also item 1a. risk factors - our international operations are subject to risks relating to worldwide operations. available information ihs markit files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the sec maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (including ihs markit). the sec's website is www.sec.gov. we maintain an internet website for investors at http://investor.ihsmarkit.com. on this website, we make available, free of charge, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, forms 3, 4, and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and all amendments to any of those reports or filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the sec. unless specifically incorporated by reference, information on our website is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k. also available on the website for investors at http://investor.ihsmarkit.com are our amended and restated bye-laws, corporate governance guidelines, audit committee charter, risk committee charter, human resources committee charter, nominating and governance committee charter, business code of conduct, and compliance hotline and reporting misconduct policy. our corporate governance documents are available in print, free of charge to any shareholder who requests them, by contacting ihs markit investor relations and corporate communications at 15 inverness way east, englewood, co 80112 or by calling +1 303 790 0600. information about our executive officers set forth below is information concerning our executive officers as of december 31, 2019. 12 table of contents name age position lance uggla 57 chairman and chief executive officer brian crotty 57 executive vice president, resources jonathan gear 49 executive vice president, president of resources, transportation and cms sari granat 49 executive vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel todd hyatt 59 executive vice president and chief financial officer adam kansler 50 executive vice president, president of financial services edouard tavernier 46 executive vice president, transportation executive officers are appointed by our board until their resignation or until their appointments are revoked by the board. in november 2019, mr. hyatt announced that he planned to retire at the end of 2020 and would step down as our chief financial officer in early 2020. we announced that we would appoint jonathan gear, currently executive vice president and president of resources, transportation and cms, to be our chief financial officer once mr. hyatt leaves the role. as of december 1, 2019, mr. crotty and mr. tavernier were promoted to the positions of executive vice president, resources and executive vice president, transportation, respectively, and became executive officers. a brief biography for each of our current executive officers follows. lance uggla mr. uggla is chairman and ceo of ihs markit. he served as president from july 2016 to december 2017 and was appointed chief operating officer in october 2017. prior to the merger, mr. uggla was chairman and ceo of markit since january 2003, responsible for leading the company's strategic development and managing day-to-day operations. he founded markit in 2003 after spotting an opportunity to bring transparency to the credit default swap market. the company launched the first daily credit default swap pricing service that year. he oversaw markit's growth from a startup to a global public company with more than 4,200 employees in 28 offices worldwide, serving more than 3,000 customers. between 1995 and 2003, mr. uggla held a number of executive management positions at toronto-dominion securities, including vice chairman and head of europe and asia. mr. uggla graduated from the simon fraser university in canada with a bba and holds a master of science from the london school of economics, u.k. brian crotty brian crotty is executive vice president, resources of ihs markit, responsible for business lines supporting the upstream and downstream industries. mr. crotty joined ihs markit in 2016 through the acquisition of opis, where he was the chief executive officer since 2002. mr. crotty has more than 25 years of experience running database and saas platform businesses, with a particular specialty in commodity pricing and supply database models. before joining opis in 2002, mr. crotty spent eight years as a vice president of hart publications. mr. crotty has a master's degree in journalism from american university and an undergraduate degree from johns hopkins university. jonathan gear jonathan gear is executive vice president and president of resources, transportation and cms of ihs markit, including business lines supporting the automotive, technology, engineering, digital, upstream, downstream, maritime, and aerospace industries. mr. gear was previously executive vice president of resources and transportation for ihs. earlier, he served in multiple leadership roles across ihs. prior to joining ihs in 2005, mr. gear held leadership positions at activant solutions, smarterwork.com, and booz allen hamilton. he holds a b.a. from the university of california, berkeley, and an mba from stanford graduate school of business. 13 table of contents sari granat sari granat is executive vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel of ihs markit, responsible for the legal, compliance, enterprise risk, information security, and information technology functions. ms. granat previously served as head of legal and general counsel at markit. prior to joining markit in 2012, ms. granat was lead counsel and chief administrative officer of themarkets.com llc. she has served in senior legal and strategy positions at media and technology companies including dow jones &amp; company and kaplan, inc. ms. granat holds a b.a. in english from yale university and a j.d. from new york university school of law. todd hyatt todd hyatt is executive vice president and chief financial officer of ihs markit. mr. hyatt joined ihs inc. in 2005 where he most recently served as executive vice president and chief financial officer after previously serving as chief information officer, senior vice president of financial planning &amp; analysis, and leading the finance organization for the company's engineering segment. prior to joining ihs, mr. hyatt also worked for lonetree capital, us west/mediaone, at&amp;t, arthur young, and arthur andersen. he holds a b.s. in accounting from the university of wyoming and an m.s. in management from purdue university. adam kansler adam kansler is executive vice president and president of financial services of ihs markit, responsible for our financial services segment, which includes pricing and reference data, trade processing, valuations, indices, and economic and country risk products. from april 2015 to july 2016, mr. kansler served as global co-head of markit's information division and head of north american operations. prior to that, mr. kansler was markit's chief administrative officer and general counsel, leading human resources, legal, corporate communications, risk, regulatory and strategic alliances. before joining markit in 2009, mr. kansler spent 17 years with proskauer llp, becoming a corporate partner. mr. kansler holds a b.a. in economics from hobart college and received his j.d. from columbia university school of law. edouard tavernier edouard tavernier is executive vice president, transportation of ihs markit, responsible for business lines supporting the automotive and maritime industries. mr. tavernier was previously senior vice president of transportation and senior vice president of automotive for ihs inc. he joined the company in 2008 and served in multiple product management, marketing, and commercial leadership roles. before joining ihs inc., mr. tavernier held management positions at lexisnexis, global insight, and united business media. he also worked at goldman sachs and bnp paribas. mr. tavernier has a master's degree in business studies from ecole des hautes etudes commerciales (hec) in france. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information provided in this annual report on form 10-k, you should carefully consider the risks described in this section. the risks described below are not the only risks that could adversely affect our business; other risks currently deemed immaterial or additional risks not currently known to us could also adversely affect us. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. you should read the section titled cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements for a description of the types of statements that are considered forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this annual report on form 10-k. we operate in competitive markets, which may adversely affect our financial results. while we do not believe that we have a direct competitor across all of the industries we serve, we face competition across all markets for our products and services, including from larger and smaller competitors that may be able to adopt new or emerging technologies to address customer requirements more quickly than we can, from incumbent companies with strong market share in specific markets, or from organizations that have not traditionally competed with us but could adapt their products and services or use their significant resources or expertise to begin competing. we believe that competitors are continuously investing, developing, and enhancing their products, services, and technology, and acquiring new businesses to better serve existing customers and attract new customers. in addition, the internet, widespread availability of sophisticated search engines, and public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information and solutions have simplified the process of locating, gathering, and disseminating data, potentially diminishing the perceived value of our offerings. while we believe our offerings are distinguished by such factors as complex compilation, standardization and analytical processes, currency, 14 table of contents accuracy and completeness, and our other added value, our customers could choose to obtain the information and solutions they need from public, regulatory, governmental, or other sources. an increase in our capital investments, price reductions for our offerings, reduced spending, or increased self-sufficiency by our customers due to competition could negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be unsuccessful in achieving our guidance, growth and profitability objectives. we provide public, full-year financial guidance based upon assumptions regarding our expected financial performance, including our ability to grow revenue, our planned expenses and tax rates, and our ability to achieve our profitability targets. we seek to achieve our growth objectives by: organically developing our offerings to meet the needs of our customers; cross selling our products and services to existing customers; acquiring new customers; entering into strategic partnerships and acquisitions; and implementing operational efficiency initiatives. most of our revenue is recurring, typically based on subscriptions to our offerings, and our operating results depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high renewal rates on our existing subscription base and to enter into new subscriptions at commercially acceptable terms. in addition, a proportion of our revenue in our financial services segment is variable and depends upon transaction volumes, investment levels (i.e., assets under management), or the number of positions we value. we devote significant resources to establish relationships with our customers, and our strategies depend on our ability to persuade customers to maintain and grow their relationship with us over time. many of our products and services, particularly in our resources and financial end-markets, are also dependent upon the robustness of the core end-markets in which we operate, as well as the financial health of the participants in those markets and the general economy. customers are focused on controlling or reducing their operating costs, and may use strategies that result in a reduction in their spending on our products and services, such as by consolidating their spending with fewer or lower cost vendors, by deferring capital spending, or by internally developing functionality. in addition, mergers or consolidations among our customers could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers, which could cause them to discontinue or reduce their use of our products and services. all such developments could lower demand or reduce the prices for our products and services or require us to offer additional products or services to compete. if we are unable to successfully execute on our strategies to achieve our growth objectives, retain existing customers, or if we experience higher than expected operating costs or taxes, our growth rates, profitability and operating results could be materially adversely affected and we may fail to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide, or find it necessary to revise such guidance during the year. if we are unable to identify opportunities, develop successful new products and services, or adapt to rapidly changing technology, our business could suffer serious harm. the information services industry is characterized by significant and rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, and changing regulatory requirements, and our growth and success depend on our ability to meet our changing customer needs. the process of developing and enhancing our products and services is complex and may become increasingly complex and expensive in the future due to the introduction of new platforms, operating systems, technologies, and customer expectations. current areas of significant technological change include artificial intelligence, mobility, cloud-based computing, blockchain, speed of availability of data, and the storing, processing, and analysis of large amounts of data. we may find it difficult or costly to enhance our current products and services and to develop new products and services quickly enough to keep the pace with evolving technologies, industry standards or regulations, or to meet our customers' needs, in which case we may not grow our business as quickly as we anticipate. fraudulent or unpermitted access to our data, services, or systems, or other cyber-security or privacy breaches may negatively impact our business and harm our reputation. many of our products and services and systems involve the collection, storage, use, and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including data from our employees, customers and suppliers, intellectual property, proprietary business information, personally identifiable information, and information that may be confidential, sensitive, or material and nonpublic. similar to other global companies that provide services online, we experience cyber-threats, cyber-attacks, and security breaches of varying degrees of severity on our products and our information technology systems and applications, which can include unauthorized attempts to access, disable, improperly modify or degrade our information, systems, and networks, the introduction of computer viruses and other malicious codes, and fraudulent phishing e-mails that seek to misappropriate data and information or install malware onto users' computers and our systems generally. cyber-threats vary in technique and sources, are persistent, and increasingly are more sophisticated, targeted, and difficult to detect and prevent. we rely on a system of physical and technological security measures, internal processes and controls, contractual precautions and business continuity plans, and policies, procedures, and training to protect the confidentiality of such data. we have dedicated resources at our company that are responsible for maintaining, and training our business teams on, appropriate levels of cyber-security, and we utilize third-party technology products and services to help identify, protect, and remediate our 15 table of contents information technology systems and infrastructure against security breaches and cyber-incidents. our information systems must also be constantly updated, patched, and upgraded to protect against known vulnerabilities and optimize performance. we may be required to incur significant costs to minimize or alleviate the effects of cyber-attacks or other security vulnerabilities and to protect against damage caused by future disruptions, security breaches, or cyber-attacks. however, our responsive and precautionary measures may not be adequate or effective to prevent, identify, or mitigate attacks by hackers, foreign governments, or other actors or breaches, disruptions, slowdowns or misconduct caused by employee error, malfeasance, or other third parties. in addition, if a customer experiences a data security breach that results in the misappropriation of our proprietary business information, our reputation could be harmed, even if we were not responsible for the breach. any fraudulent, malicious, or accidental breach of data security controls can impact our ability to provide our products and services to customers, prevent authorized access to our systems by customers, suppliers, and employees or result in unintentional disclosure of, or unauthorized access to, or misappropriation or misuse of, customer, vendor, employee, or other confidential or sensitive data or information, which could potentially result in additional costs to our company to enhance security or to respond to occurrences, lost sales, loss of confidence in our processes and reliability, damages to our brand and reputation, violations of regulations or laws relating to the privacy of personal or payment card information, sanctions, fines, penalties, or litigation. similarly, if any confidential or embargoed data is inadvertently disclosed or deliberately misused prior to our authorization, customers and financial markets could be negatively affected, and any resulting need to change our procedures for handling and sharing this data may diminish the value of such offerings. in addition, media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities to our systems or those of our third-party suppliers, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact our reputation. we are also dependent on security measures that some of our customers and suppliers are taking to protect their own systems and infrastructures. for example, our outsourcing of certain functions requires us to sometimes grant network access to third-party suppliers. if our suppliers do not maintain adequate security measures, do not require their sub-contractors to maintain adequate security measures, do not perform as anticipated and in accordance with contractual requirements, or become targets of cyber-attacks, we may experience the same impacts as described above. if any of these were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. while we maintain what we believe is sufficient insurance coverage that may (subject to certain policy terms and conditions, including deductibles) cover certain aspects of third-party security and cyber-risks and business interruption, our insurance coverage may not always cover all costs or losses. we could experience system failures or capacity constraints that could negatively impact our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex systems, relying on people, processes, and technology to function effectively. most of our products and services are delivered electronically, and our customers rely on our ability to process and deliver substantial quantities of information and other services on computer-based networks. some elements of these systems have been outsourced to third-party providers, including critical data inputs received from third-party suppliers and data systems stored on cloud-based computing infrastructure. some of our systems have been consolidated for the purpose of enhancing scalability and efficiency, which increases our dependency on a smaller number of systems. any failure of, or significant interruption, delay, or disruption to, our systems could result in: disruption to our operations; significant expense to repair, replace, or remediate systems, equipment or facilities; a loss of customers; legal or regulatory claims, proceedings, or fines; damage to our reputation; and harm to our business. system interruptions or failures could result from a wide variety of causes, including: human error, natural disasters (such as hurricanes and floods), infrastructure or network failures (including failures at third-party data centers, by third-party cloud-computing providers, or of aging technology assets), disruptions to the internet, malicious attacks or cyber incidents such as unauthorized access, ransomware, loss or destruction of data (including confidential and/or personal customer information), account takeovers, computer viruses or other malicious code, and the loss or failure of systems over which we have no control. in addition, significant growth of our customer base or increases in the number of products or services or in the speed at which we are required to provide products and services may also strain our systems in the future. we may also face significant increases in our use of power and data storage and may experience a shortage of capacity and increased costs associated with such usage. we may also face additional strain on our systems and networks due to aging or end-of-life technology that we have not yet updated or replaced. while we generally have disaster recovery and business continuity plans that utilize industry standards and best practices for much of our business, including back-up facilities for our primary data centers, a testing program, and staff training, our systems are not always fully redundant and such plans may not always be sufficient or effective. in the past when we have experienced system interruptions or failures, some of our products or services have been unavailable for a limited period of time, but none of these occurrences have been material to our business. however, any of the above factors could individually or in the aggregate adversely affect our business and results of operations, and our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all failures, interruptions, delays, or disruptions. 16 table of contents our transition to cloud-based technologies could expose us to operational disruptions. we are transitioning our technology to cloud-based infrastructure, which is complex, time consuming, and can involve substantial expenditures. our utilization of cloud services is critical to developing and providing products and services to our customers, scaling our business for future growth, accurately maintaining data and otherwise operating our business; any such implementation involves risks inherent in the conversion to a new system, including loss of information and potential disruption to our normal operations. we may discover deficiencies in our design or implementation or maintenance of the new cloud-based systems that could adversely affect our business. upon implementation of the new cloud-based solutions, failure of cloud infrastructure providers to maintain adequate physical, technical and administrative safeguards to protect the security of our confidential information and data could result in unauthorized access to our systems or a system or network disruption that could lead to improper disclosure of confidential information or data, regulatory penalties and remedial costs. there may also be a discrepancy between the contractual liability profile that the cloud service provider has agreed to and our contractual liability profile with our customers. any disruption to either the outsourced systems or the communication links between us and the outsourced suppliers could negatively affect our ability to operate our data systems, and could impair our ability to provide services to our customers. as we increase our reliance on these third-party systems, our exposure to damage from service disruptions may increase. we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions. design defects, errors, failures, or delays associated with our products or services could negatively impact our business. software, products, and services that we develop, license, or distribute, or use to develop or provide our products and services, may contain errors or defects when first released or when major new updates or enhancements are released that cause the software, product or service to operate incorrectly or less effectively. we may also experience delays while developing and introducing new products and services for various reasons, such as difficulties in licensing data inputs or adapting to particular operating environments. defects, errors, or delays in our products or services that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could result in rejection or delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, a lower rate of license renewals or upgrades, diversion of development resources, product liability claims or regulatory actions, or increases in service and support costs. we may also need to expend significant capital resources to eliminate or work around defects, errors, failures, or delays. in each of these ways, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. we depend on externally obtained software, content, and services to support our offerings, and the interruption or cessation of important third-party content or services could prove harmful to our business. we obtain data from a wide variety of external sources that we transform into critical information and analytics and use to create integrated product and service offerings for our customers. many of our offerings include content and information that is purchased or licensed from third parties, including from public record sources or parties that are our customers or our competitors, or obtained using independent contractors. for instance, our industry standards offerings that are part of our product design workflow rely on information licensed from standards developing organizations, and many of our financial institution customers provide us with data that is a critical input for many of our financial services offerings. we believe that the content licensed from many of these third parties might not be able to be obtained from alternate sources on favorable terms, if at all. our license agreements with these third parties are often nonexclusive and many are terminable on less than one year's notice. in addition, many of these third parties compete with one another and with us, including by providing data to our competitors, consolidating with each other, or becoming competitors themselves, which may cause them to reduce their willingness to supply, or increase the price of, data and content that are important to our products and services. our competitors could also enter into exclusive contracts with, or acquire, our data sources, which may preclude us from receiving data from such sources or restrict our use of such data. our business, data sources, or content could become subject to legislative, regulatory, judicial, or contractual restrictions that limit or prohibit the way we collect, process, or use content or data sources in our products and services. contracts with third-party content providers are increasingly subject to information and physical security and compliance audits. we also collect data for our products and services through independent service providers. we are limited in our ability to monitor and direct the activities of our independent contractors and customers, but if any actions or business practices of these individuals or entities violate our policies or procedures or are otherwise deemed inappropriate or illegal, we could lose access to content, as well as be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions, or reputational damage. if we lose access to, or are restricted in receiving, a significant number of data sources and cannot replace the data through alternative sources, or we are unable to obtain information licensed to us consistently, in a timely manner, or on terms commercially reasonable to us, specific products, services, and customer solutions may be impacted or disrupted and our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results, and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. 17 table of contents our relationships with third-party service providers may change, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we have commercial relationships with third-party service providers whose capabilities complement our own for integral services, software, and technologies. many of our products and services are developed or are made available to our customers using integral infrastructure, information, and technology solutions provided by third-party service providers. for example, we outsource certain functions involving our data transformation process and data hosting functions to business partners, including cloud-computing providers, who we believe offer us deep expertise in these areas, as well as scalability and cost-effective services. in addition, we sometimes rely on third-party dealers to sell or distribute some of our offerings, such as in locations where we do not maintain a sales office or sales teams or for methods of distribution to which we do not have direct access. in some cases, these providers are also our competitors or may in the future become our competitors, which could impact our relationships. the priorities and objectives of these providers may differ from ours, which may make us vulnerable to changes in, or terminations of, our third-party relationships and could reduce our access over time to infrastructure, information, and technology. we have little control over these third-party providers, which increases our vulnerability to errors, defects, failures, interruptions, or disruptions or problems with their services or technologies. we also face risks that one or more service providers may perform work that deviates from our standards or that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property or protect the security of our confidential information and data. any errors, failures to perform, interruptions, delays, breaches, or terminations of service experienced in connection with these third-party providers, or if we do not obtain the expected benefits from our relationships with third-party service providers, we may be less competitive, our products and services may be negatively affected, and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. failure to comply with customer contracts or requirements could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. contracts with customers increasingly include performance requirements as customers seek to increase the liability profile taken by third-party providers like us. for example, contracts with customers are increasingly subject to audits, which may include a review of performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, information and physical security, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. contracts with governmental customers are also generally subject to various procurement regulations and other requirements relating to their performance. many of our customers, particularly in the financial services sector, are also subject to regulations and requirements to adopt risk management processes commensurate with the level of risk and complexity of their third-party relationships, and provide rigorous oversight of relationships that involve certain critical activities, some of which may be deemed to be provided by us. any failure on our part to comply with the specific provisions in customer contracts, policies or processes, or any violation of government contracting regulations or requirements, could result in the imposition of various penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, and, in the case of government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. any negative publicity with respect to customer contracts or any related proceedings, regardless of accuracy, may damage our business by harming our ability to compete for new contracts. while no one customer contract is material to our business as a whole, if a significant number of our customer contracts are terminated, or our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. the loss of, or the inability to attract and retain, qualified personnel could impair our future success. our future success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our highly skilled, educated, and trained employees, including our experts in research and analysis, information technology, and the industries in which we operate, and colleagues in sales, marketing, product development, operations, technology, and management, including our executive officers. we do not carry any key person insurance policies that could offset potential loss of service under applicable circumstances. we must maintain our ability to attract, motivate, compensate, and retain highly qualified colleagues in order to support our customers and achieve business results. the markets we serve are highly competitive and competition for skilled employees in our industry is intense for both onshore and offshore locales, and uncertainty around future employment opportunities, facility locations, organizational and reporting structures, acquisitions and divestitures, and other related concerns may impair our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. the loss of the services of qualified personnel and any inability to recruit effective replacements or to otherwise attract, motivate, train, or retain highly qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. we also must manage leadership development and succession planning throughout our business. any significant leadership change and accompanying senior management transition involves inherent risk, and any failure to ensure a smooth transition could hinder our strategic planning, execution, and future performance. while we strive to mitigate the negative impact associated with changes to our senior management team, such changes may cause uncertainty among investors, employees, customers, creditors, and others concerning our future direction and performance. if we fail to effectively manage our leadership changes, including ongoing organizational and strategic changes, our business, financial condition, operating results, and ability to successfully attract, motivate and retain highly qualified colleagues, could be harmed. 18 table of contents we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information. our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, processes, methodologies, and information. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, and other intellectual property laws and nondisclosure, license, assignment, and confidentiality arrangements to establish, maintain, and protect our proprietary rights, as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose assets we license. however, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation, or theft of our intellectual property. intellectual property laws differ in various jurisdictions in which we operate and are subject to change at any time, which could further restrict our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. in particular, a portion of our revenues is derived from jurisdictions where adequately protecting intellectual property rights may prove more challenging or impossible. we may also not be able to detect unauthorized uses or take timely and effective steps to remedy unauthorized conduct. to prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation or other proceedings and we may not ultimately prevail. courts, in particular, may be reluctant to enforce our proprietary rights against individual employees or contractors. any failure to establish, maintain, or protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we may be exposed to litigation related to products we make available to customers and we may face legal liability or damage to our reputation. companies in our industry have increasingly pursued patent and other intellectual property protection for their data, technologies, and business methods. as we do not actively monitor third-party intellectual property, if any of our data, technologies, or business methods are covered or become covered by third-party intellectual property protection and used without license or if we misuse data, technologies or business methods outside the terms of our licenses, we may be subject to claims or threats of infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of intellectual property rights, or have the use of our data, technologies, and business methods otherwise challenged. we have also in the past been, and may in the future be, called upon to defend partners, customers, suppliers, or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our agreements. responding to such claims or threats, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time and resources, result in costly or unfavorable litigation or settlements that could exceed the limits of applicable insurance coverage, delay operations of our business, require redesign of our products and services, or require new royalty and licensing agreements. it could also damage our reputation for any reason, which could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, employees, and information suppliers. any such factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to litigation and investigation risks which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we are from time to time involved in various litigation matters and claims, including regulatory proceedings, administrative proceedings, lawsuits, governmental investigations, and contract disputes, as they relate to our products, services, and business. we may face potential claims or liability for, among other things, breach of contract, defamation, libel, fraud, antitrust, or negligence, with respect to the use of our offerings by our customers, particularly if the information in our offerings was incorrect for any reason, or if it were misused or used inappropriately. we may also face employment-related litigation and investigations, including claims of age discrimination, sexual harassment, gender discrimination, racial discrimination, immigration violations, or other local, state, and federal labor, environmental, health, and safety violations. in addition, we may receive routine requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with their regulatory or investigatory authority or from private third parties pursuant to subpoena. in the past, certain of our business practices have been investigated by government antitrust or competition agencies, and we have on multiple occasions been sued by private parties for alleged violations of the antitrust and competition laws of various jurisdictions, and there is a risk based upon the leading position of certain of our business operations or the relationships between our customers in using our products and services that we could, in the future, be the target of investigations by government entities or actions by private parties challenging the legality of our business practices. because of the uncertain nature of litigation, investigations, and insurance coverage decisions, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. litigation and investigations are very costly, and the costs associated with prosecuting and defending litigation and investigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. depending on the outcome of future claims or investigations, we may also be required to change the way we offer, and how other parties purchase or interact with, particular products or services, which could result in material disruptions to and costs incurred by our business. in light of the potential time, expense, and uncertainty involved in litigation and investigations, including fines, penalties, damages, or injunctions or other equitable remedies, we may settle matters even when we believe we have a meritorious defense. we are unable to estimate precisely the ultimate dollar amount of 19 table of contents exposure to loss or the amounts we actually pay in connection with litigation and investigation matters, due to inherent uncertainties and the inherent shortcomings of the estimation process, the uncertainties involved in litigation, and other factors. our use of open source software could result in litigation or impose unanticipated restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services. we use open source software in our technology, most often as small components within a larger product or service. open source code is also contained in some third-party software we rely on. the terms of many open source licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. or other courts, and these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services, license the software on unfavorable terms, require us to re-engineer our products and services or take other remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we could also be subject to suits by parties claiming breach of the terms of licenses, which could be costly for us to defend. our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. the integrity and external perceptions of our brand and reputation are key to our ability to remain a trusted source of products and services and to attract and retain customers. we also enter into redistribution arrangements that allow other firms to represent certain of our products and services as partners or agents. reputational damage from negative perceptions or publicity, or actual, alleged, or perceived issues regarding any of our products or services, or misrepresentation of our products and services by third parties, could damage our reputation and relationships with customers, prospects, and the public generally. although we monitor developments, including social media, for areas of potential risk to our brand and reputation, negative perceptions or publicity or misrepresentations by third parties may adversely impact our credibility as a trusted source for critical information, analytics, and insight and may have a negative impact on our brand, reputation, and our business. failure to operate our pricing and valuation services, benchmarks, and indices in a manner that maintains their independence and integrity could adversely affect our reputation and our business. we operate multiple global pricing and valuation services, benchmark products, and indices across a broad range of commodities and asset classes, many of which depend on contributions or inputs from third parties or market participants. to ensure continued use of such products and services, our customers expect us to be able to demonstrate that they are not readily subject to manipulation. we believe our products and services are designed with appropriate methodologies, processes, and procedures to maintain independence and integrity; however, we may not be able to prevent third parties or market participants from working together or colluding to try to manipulate their inputs and thus the resulting outputs of our products and services. we may also become involved in third-party investigations or litigation related to the commodities and asset classes our products and services serve. any failures, negative publicity, investigations, or lawsuits that implicate the independence and integrity of our pricing and valuation services, benchmarks, and indices could result in a loss of confidence in the administration of these products and services and could harm our reputation and our business. some of our products and services typically face long selling cycles to secure new contracts, which require significant resource commitments and result in long lead times before we receive revenue. for certain new products and services, and especially for complex products and services, we often face long selling cycles to secure new contracts and customers, and there can be a long preparation period before we commence providing products and services. for instance, some of our financial services products and services can require active engagement with potential customers and can take 12 months or more to reach deal closure. some products' success is also dependent on building a network of users and may not be profitable while such a network is developing. we can incur significant business development expenses during the selling cycle, and we may not succeed in winning a new customer's business, in which case we receive no revenue and may receive no reimbursement for such expenses. selling cycle periods could lengthen, causing us to incur even higher business development expenses with no guarantee of winning a new customer's business. even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new customer, we may not be successful in obtaining contractual commitments after the selling cycle or in maintaining contractual commitments after the implementation cycle, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 20 table of contents changes in the legislative, regulatory, and commercial environments in which we operate may adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, use, transfer, publish, or sell data, subject us to increased regulation or decreased demand of our products and services, or prevent us from offering certain products or services, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. certain types of information we collect, compile, store, use, transfer, publish and/or sell, and certain of our products and services, are subject to regulation by law and governmental authorities in various jurisdictions in which we operate. there is an increasing public concern regarding, and resulting regulations of, privacy, data, and consumer protection issues. certain types of information, including offerings in our automotive businesses, are subject to laws and regulations by governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. these laws and regulations pertain primarily to personally identifiable information relating to individuals, and constrain the collection, use, storage, and transfer of that data, as well as other obligations with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant litigation and civil or criminal penalties (including monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions or fines) in one or more jurisdictions and reputational damage resulting in the loss of data, brand equity and business. to conduct our operations, we also move data across national borders and consequently are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and data security in an increasing number of jurisdictions. many jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, such as the european union general data protection regulation (the gdpr ), the cyber-security law adopted by china in 2017, and the 2020 california privacy act, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. these laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently, and increasingly conflict among the various countries in which we operate, which has resulted in greater compliance risk and cost for us. it is possible that we could be prohibited or constrained from collecting or disseminating certain types of data or from providing certain products or services. if we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant litigation, civil or criminal penalties, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions or fines in one or more jurisdictions. for example, a failure to comply with the gdpr could result in fines up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of annual global revenues. many of our customers rely on our products and services to meet their operational, regulatory, or compliance needs. our financial industry customers, for example, operate within a highly regulated environment and must comply with governmental and quasi-governmental legislation, regulations, directives, and standards. in addition, our benchmark administration services have recently become regulated by the u.k. financial conduct authority and the dutch authority for the financial markets, and we have been developing new products and services that will require regulatory approval and oversight in various jurisdictions. complex and ever-evolving legislative and regulatory changes around the world that impact our customers' industries may impact how we provide products and services to our customers and may affect the development, structure and regulation of, and possibly the demand for, products and services we offer or develop, such as indices, benchmark administration, settlement, intermediating and clearing services, and offerings in which we function as a third-party service provider. changes in laws, rules, regulations or standards may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules, regulations, or standards, or fail to obtain regulatory approval to conduct certain operations or provide certain products or services, we could be limited in the types of products and services we provide or subject to fines or other penalties. additionally, we may be required to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, rules, or regulations in various jurisdictions, or investigate, defend, or remedy actual or alleged violations, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in materially higher compliance costs to us. new legislation, or a significant change in laws, rules, regulations, or standards could also result in some of our products and services becoming obsolete or prohibited, reduce demand for our products and services, increase expenses as we modify or develop products and services to comply with new requirements and retain relevancy, impose limitations on our operations, and increase compliance or litigation expense, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to risks relating to worldwide operations, and our compliance and risk management methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. operating in many jurisdictions around the world, we may be affected by numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal and regulatory regimes, including: changes in law or their interpretation (including trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including export controls and economic sanctions laws); changes in tax rates, holidays, incentives and laws, or their interpretation; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and political conditions and events. different liability standards and legal systems, that may be less developed and less predictable than those in the united states and the united kingdom, could limit our ability to provide services in specific countries and subject us to potential noncompliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations. we must also manage social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region; restrictive actions by governments, including embargoes; difficulties in 21 table of contents staffing and managing local operations; difficulties with local or grassroots activism; difficulties in penetrating new markets because of established and entrenched competitors; uncertainties of obtaining data and creating products and services that are relevant to particular geographic markets; lack of recognition of our brands, products, or services; unavailability of local joint venture partners; restrictions or limitations on outsourcing contracts or services abroad; potential adverse tax consequences on the repatriation of funds and from taxation reform affecting multinational companies; and exposure to adverse government action in countries where we may conduct reporting activities. because of the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights. compliance with diverse legal and regulatory requirements is costly and time-consuming, and requires significant resources. violations could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal and civil sanctions, including the restriction, suspension or revocation of an authorization, regulatory approval, license, recognition, exemption or registration that we rely on in order to conduct our business, and damage to our reputation. as we operate our business around the world, we must manage the potential conflicts between locally accepted business practices in any given jurisdiction and our obligations to comply with laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws or regulations applicable to us, such as the u.k. bribery act 2010, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and regulations established by the u.s. office of foreign assets control. government agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against companies for violations of export controls, anti-corruption laws or regulations, and other laws, rules, sanctions, embargoes, and regulations. for example, the united states, the european union, and other countries have imposed significant sanctions measures targeting the energy, defense, and financial sectors of russia's economy and specific russian officials and businesses. there is also significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the united states and various other countries, most significantly china, with respect to trade policies, treaties, government regulations and tariffs. although we believe all our business activities are permissible under all current applicable laws, rules, sanctions, embargoes, and regulations, we may be required to discontinue or limit our business activities in the future. further, the implementation of new trade policies, treaties, tariffs, legislation or regulations, or changes in or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies, could require us to incur significant compliance costs and impede our ability to operate, expand, and enhance our products and services as necessary to remain competitive and grow our business. our ability to comply with applicable complex and changing laws and rules, including anti-corruption laws, is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, surveillance, audit, and reporting systems, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program intended to promote and facilitate compliance with all applicable laws, which includes employee training and the creation of appropriate policies and procedures defining employee behavior. we also have policies, procedures, and controls designed to comply with all applicable laws, rules, sanctions, embargoes, and regulations and measure the compliance of our third-party providers. however, these measures may not always be effective, and we may fail to appropriately monitor or evaluate the risks to which we are or may be exposed or identify business activities that violate laws, rules, sanctions, embargoes, and regulations. in addition, we may not always be successful in detecting if our employees, contractors, agents, and suppliers, including independent companies to which we outsource certain business operations, are engaging in misconduct, fraud, or otherwise taking actions in violation of our policies, procedures, and controls. in addition, some of our risk management methods depend upon evaluation of public information that may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date, or properly evaluated. in such cases, we could be subject to investigations and proceedings that may be very expensive to defend and may result in criminal enforcement actions, penalties for non-compliance, or civil actions or lawsuits, including by customers, for damages that could be significant. any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. legal, political, and economic uncertainty surrounding the planned exit of the united kingdom from the european union are a source of instability and uncertainty. the referendum in the united kingdom in favor of the united kingdom leaving the european union ( e.u. ), commonly referred to as brexit, could cause disruption to our business, including affecting relationships with existing and future customers, suppliers, and employees. the united kingdom held an election in december 2019, resulting in a majority government that is expected to complete brexit whether or not a formal withdrawal agreement is in place with the european union. we are headquartered and tax domiciled in the united kingdom and conduct business throughout the european union primarily through our u.k. subsidiaries. the united kingdom will cease to be a member state of the european union by january 31, 2020, if not delayed, and will lose access to the e.u. single market and to e.u. trade deals negotiated with other jurisdictions at that time, so the long-term effects of brexit will depend on the agreements or arrangements with the european union for the united kingdom to retain access to e.u. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. depending on the final terms of brexit and the agreements or arrangements negotiated with the european union, we could face 22 table of contents new regulatory costs and challenges. for instance, we may be required to move certain operations to other e.u. member states to maintain access to the e.u. single market and to e.u. trade deals. a decline in trade could affect the attractiveness of the united kingdom as a global investment center and have a detrimental impact on u.k. growth. although we have an international customer base, we could be adversely affected by reduced growth and greater currency and economic volatility in the united kingdom. brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the united kingdom determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate, including u.k. competition laws. changes to u.k. immigration policy related to brexit could also affect our business. although the united kingdom would likely retain its diverse pool of talent, london's role as a global financial center may decline, particularly if financial institutions shift their operations to the european union as the united kingdom loses the e.u. financial services passport. any adjustments we make to our business and operations as a result of brexit could result in significant time and expense to complete. any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. our international operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations. we operate in many countries around the world and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. in 2019, we generated approximately 40 percent of our revenues from sales outside the united states and approximately 20 percent of our revenue was transacted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets, and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including, but not limited to, the british pound, the euro, the canadian dollar, the singapore dollar, and the indian rupee. as we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses will likely be incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related products and services. an increase in the value of certain currencies against the u.s. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at offshore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local currency. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues, income, expenses, and the value of assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. we may use derivative financial instruments to reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. nevertheless, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other major currencies can materially affect our net operating revenues, operating income, and the value of balance sheet items denominated in other currencies. international hostilities, terrorist or cyber-terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics, and infrastructure disruptions could prevent us from effectively serving our customers and thus adversely affect our results of operations. acts of terrorism, cyber-terrorism, political unrest, war, civil disturbance, armed regional and international hostilities and international responses to these hostilities, natural disasters (including hurricanes or floods), global health risks or pandemics, or the threat of or perceived potential for these events could have a negative impact on us. these events could adversely affect our customers' levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. these events also pose significant risks to our employees, information systems, and our physical facilities and operations around the world, whether the facilities are ours or those of our third-party service providers or customers. by disrupting communications and travel and increasing the difficulty of obtaining and retaining highly skilled and qualified personnel, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products and services to our customers. extended disruptions of electricity, other public utilities, or network services at our facilities, as well as system failures at our facilities or otherwise, could also adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. we may be unable to protect our employees, facilities, and systems against all such occurrences. we generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, conflicts, and wars. if these disruptions prevent us from effectively serving our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. acquisitions, joint ventures, or similar strategic relationships, or dispositions of our businesses, and the related integration or separation risks, may require significant resources or result in unanticipated costs or liabilities or fail to deliver anticipated benefits, and may disrupt or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. as part of our business strategy, we pursue selective acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies, or joint ventures, partnerships, alliances, or similar strategic transactions and relationships with third parties, to support our business. we may also undertake dispositions of certain of our businesses or products. we seek to be disciplined in a highly competitive market and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates on favorable terms to successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, alliances or strategic relationships, or dispositions. in addition, we typically fund our acquisitions through our credit facilities. although we have capacity under our credit facilities, those may not be sufficient. therefore, future acquisitions or strategic relationships may require us to obtain additional financing through debt or equity, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all and could result in shareholder dilution. if such acquisitions or other strategic transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits. their success 23 table of contents depends on, among other things, our ability to integrate businesses in a manner that realizes anticipated synergies and exceeds cost savings and revenue growth trends we have identified, which is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. we expect to benefit from cost synergies driven by a number of strategies, such as integrating corporate functions, using cost-competitive locations, optimizing it infrastructure, real estate, and other costs, as well as greater tax efficiencies from global cash movement. we may also enjoy revenue synergies, including cross-selling of products and services, an expanded product offering, and balance across geographic regions. we may not be successful in integrating acquired businesses, and completed strategic transactions may not perform at the levels we anticipate or achieve our expected cost or revenue synergies. the completion of such transactions may have material unanticipated risks, difficulties, costs, liabilities, competitive response, and diversion of management focus and attention, such as: difficulties, delays, and expenses in integrating or remediating operations, systems, and technology and maintaining institutional knowledge and procedures; challenges in conforming standards, controls, procedures, accounting and other policies, business cultures, and compensation structures; challenges in keeping and developing business relationships; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of the company; impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets; disruption of operations; unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures; contingent liabilities (including contingent tax liabilities) that are larger than expected; and adverse tax consequences pursuant to changes in applicable tax laws, regulations, or other administrative guidance. the anticipated benefits from strategic transactions may take longer to realize than expected or may not be realized fully. we may also have difficulty integrating and operating businesses in countries and geographies where we do not currently have a significant presence, and could increase our exposure to risks of conducting operations in international markets. similarly, any divestitures will be accompanied by risks commonly encountered in the sale of businesses or assets. as a result, the failure of acquisitions, dispositions, and other strategic transactions to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our indebtedness obligations and our other ongoing business obligations, which may result in defaults; events of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt instruments, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable or require us to negotiate an amendment to financial or other covenants that could cause us to incur additional fees and expenses; sensitivity to interest rate increases on our variable rate outstanding indebtedness, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly; reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate, and the overall economy; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and increasing our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. this, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot be certain that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any future credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our indebtedness obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. we may incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, for many reasons, including to fund acquisitions. if we add additional indebtedness or other liabilities, the related risks that we face could intensify. a downgrade to our credit ratings would increase our cost of borrowing under our credit facility and adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. we are party to a $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit agreement that matures in november 2024 (the senior credit facility ). the cost of borrowing under the senior credit facility and our ability to, and the terms under which we may, access the credit markets are affected by credit ratings assigned to us by the major credit rating agencies. these ratings are premised on our performance under assorted financial metrics and other measures of financial strength, business and financial risk, and other factors determined by the credit rating agencies. our current ratings have served to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate access to a variety of lenders. however, there can be no assurance that our credit ratings or outlook will not be lowered in the future in response to adverse changes in these metrics and factors caused by our operating results or by actions that we take that reduce our profitability, or that require us to incur additional indebtedness for items such as substantial acquisitions, significant increases in costs and capital spending in security and it systems, significant costs related to settlements of litigation or regulatory requirements, or by returning excess cash to shareholders through dividends or under our share repurchase program. a downgrade of our credit ratings would increase our cost of borrowing under the senior credit 24 table of contents facility, negatively affect our ability to access the capital markets on advantageous terms, or at all, negatively affect the trading price of our securities, and have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot provide any guaranty of future dividend payments or that we will continue to repurchase our common shares pursuant to our share repurchase program. in october 2019, the board approved the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend beginning in the first quarter of 2020. in addition, the board terminated our previous share repurchase program and authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $2.5 billion in common shares with a termination date of november 30, 2021. under the share repurchase program, we are authorized to repurchase our common shares on the open market from time to time, in privately negotiated transactions, or through accelerated share repurchase agreements, subject to availability of common shares, price, market conditions, alternative uses of capital, and applicable regulatory requirements, at management's discretion. quarterly cash dividends and share repurchases under our share repurchase program constitute components of our capital allocation strategy, which we fund with free operating cash flow and borrowings. however, we are not required to declare dividends or to make any share repurchases under our share repurchase program. any determination by the board to pay cash dividends on our common shares in the future will be based upon our financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, and the continuing determination from the board that the declaration of dividends complies with all applicable laws and agreements. as a result, in the future we may not choose or be able to declare or pay a cash dividend, and we may not achieve an annual dividend rate in any particular amount. furthermore, the share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any set dollar amount or number of shares and may be modified, suspended, or terminated at any time without prior notice. the reduction or elimination of our cash dividend or share repurchase program could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. additionally, the existence of a share repurchase program could cause the market price of our common shares to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our shares. as a result, any repurchase program may not ultimately result in enhanced value to our shareholders and may not prove to be the best use of our cash resources. the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) may not agree that, after the 2016 merger of ihs inc. and markit ltd., ihs markit should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and/or that we are not subject to certain other adverse u.s. federal income tax laws relating to certain transactions that we may undertake in the future. in addition, future changes to u.s. tax laws could adversely affect us. because ihs markit is organized under the laws of bermuda and is and has been treated as tax resident in the united kingdom, we believe that we are, and have taken the position on our u.s. and non-u.s. tax returns, a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the code (referred to as section 7874 ). section 7874 provides that if, following an acquisition of a u.s. corporation by a non-u.s. corporation, at least 80% of the acquiring non-u.s. corporation's stock (by vote or value) is considered to be held by former shareholders of the u.s. corporation by reason of holding stock of such u.s. corporation (such percentage referred to as the ownership percentage and such test referred to as the ownership test ) and the expanded affiliated group that includes the acquiring non-u.s. corporation does not have substantial business activities in the country in which the acquiring non-u.s. corporation is created or organized, then the non-u.s. corporation would be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes even though it is a corporation created and organized outside the united states. in addition, if the ownership percentage is at least 60% but less than 80%, while the non-u.s. corporation will be respected as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, certain adverse u.s. tax rules would apply with respect to certain intercompany transactions and income. based on the rules for determining the ownership percentage for purposes of the ownership test under section 7874, we believe that the former ihs inc. shareholders held less than 60% of our stock (by vote and value) after the merger by reason of holding ihs common stock, and therefore that ihs markit should not be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes and should not be subject to the adverse u.s. tax rules described above. however, there is limited guidance regarding the application of section 7874, including the application of the ownership test. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes or otherwise subject to the adverse u.s. tax rules described above, we could be subject to substantially greater u.s. income tax liability than if our status as a non-u.s. corporation were respected. in addition, if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, any dividends we pay to non-u.s. shareholders would be subject to u.s. withholding tax at the rate of 30% (or a reduced rate under an applicable tax treaty). audits, investigations, tax proceedings and future changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to direct and indirect taxes in numerous jurisdictions, and tax laws, including tax rates, in the jurisdictions in which we operate may change as a result of macroeconomic, political, or other factors. 25 table of contents we calculate and provide for such taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. the amount of tax we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. in complex transactions or jurisdictions, we regularly utilize third-party advisers to help us make judgments about the proper application of tax law. we have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of tax laws, but tax accounting often involves complex matters and judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for taxes and other tax liabilities. although we believe that we have complied with all applicable tax laws, we have been and expect to continue to be subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, and tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with some of our interpretations of applicable tax law. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits to determine the appropriateness of our tax provisions. however, our judgments may not be sustained on completion of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded. our tax liabilities and effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws. for example, the u.s. congress, the organisation for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ), and other government agencies have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations, such as the comprehensive plan set forth by the oecd to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting. the tax laws in the united states, the united kingdom, and other countries in which we operate could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and changes in tax laws, treaties, or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may be unpredictable, particularly in less developed markets, and could become more stringent. any of these occurrences could materially adversely affect our tax position and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our common shares, including enforcing judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. we are organized under the laws of bermuda as a bermuda exempted company. as a result, our corporate affairs and the rights of holders of our common shares are governed by bermuda law, including the companies act 1981 (the companies act ), which differs in some material respects from laws typically applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits, and indemnification of directors. generally, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies typically do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. class actions are not available under bermuda law. the circumstances in which derivative actions may be available under bermuda law are substantially more proscribed and less clear than they would be to shareholders of u.s. corporations. the bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. furthermore, consideration would be given by a bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company's shareholders than that which actually approved it. when the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the supreme court of bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company's affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty. in addition, the rights of holders of our common shares and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the united states, particularly the state of delaware. it is also doubtful whether courts in bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the united states, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. therefore, holders of our common shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the united states. we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. these provisions provide for: directors only to be removed for cause; restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated; our board of directors to determine the powers, preferences, and rights of our preference 26 table of contents shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval; and an affirmative vote of 66-2/3% of our voting shares for certain business combination transactions which have not been approved by our board of directors. these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party's offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk refers to potential losses from adverse changes in market rates and prices. we are exposed to market risk primarily in the form of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, and credit risk. we actively monitor these exposures. in order to manage these exposures, we use derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forwards. our objective is to reduce fluctuations in revenue, earnings, and cash flows resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. we do not use derivatives for speculative purposes. interest rate risk as of november 30, 2019 , we had no significant investments other than cash and cash equivalents and therefore we were not exposed to material interest rate risk on investments. our 2019 revolving facility and our 364-day credit agreement are subject to variable interest rates. we use interest rate swaps in order to fix a portion of our variable rate debt as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. as of november 30, 2019, we had $487 million of floating-rate debt at a 2.73 percent weighted-average interest rate. a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points applied to our floating rate indebtedness would increase annual interest expense by approximately $1 million ($5 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). foreign currency exchange rate risk our consolidated financial statements are expressed in u.s. dollars, but a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than u.s. dollars. changes in the exchange rates for such currencies into u.s. dollars can affect our revenues, earnings, and the carrying values of our assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet, either positively or negatively. fluctuations in foreign currency rates increased (decreased) our revenues by approximately $34 million , $24 million , and $(27) million for the years ended november 30, 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively, and had no material impact on operating income for the same respective periods. the translation effects of changes in exchange rates in our consolidated balance sheet are recorded within the cumulative translation adjustment component of our shareholders' equity. in 2019 , we recorded a 46 table of contents cumulative translation gain of $46 million , reflecting changes in exchange rates of various currencies compared to the u.s. dollar. a hypothetical 10 percent change in the currencies that we are primarily exposed to would have impacted our 2019 revenue by approximately $93 million and our 2019 operating income by approximately $12 million . approximately 80 percent of total revenue was earned in subsidiaries with the u.s. dollar as the functional currency. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk associated with cash equivalents, foreign currency and interest rate derivatives, and trade receivables. we do not believe that our cash equivalents or foreign currency and interest rate derivatives present significant credit risks because the counterparties to the instruments consist of major financial institutions that are financially sound, and we manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty. substantially all trade receivable balances are unsecured. the concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited by the large number of customers in our customer base and their dispersion across various industries and geographic areas. we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain an allowance for potential credit losses.