quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference from pages 39 and 40 of the company annual report.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference from pages 44 and 45 of the company annual report.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference from pages 50 through 52 of the company annual report.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference from pages 26 and 27 of the company annual report.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference from pages 28 and 29 of the company annual report.risk factors risk factors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect the company business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company currently deems immaterial also may impair the company business operations and financial condition. 5 table of contents the company performance is affected by general economic and political conditions and taxation policies. the company results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic and political conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which the company conducts business, the financial markets through which the company accesses capital and currency, political unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which the company carries on business. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which the company is currently active or may be active in the future, or on specific products that it sells or with which its products compete, may have an adverse effect on its business or on its results of operations. the company operates in the highly competitive food industry. the company faces competition across its product lines, including ready-to -eat cereals and convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. some of the company competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in the company various markets and product lines could cause the company to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of the company. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if the company is not successful in introducing new products. the company consolidated financial results and demand for the company products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact on the company and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. the company success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. the company aims to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while the company devotes significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of its business, it may not be successful in developing new products or its new products may not be commercially successful. the company future results and its ability to maintain or improve its competitive position will depend on its capacity to gauge the direction of its key markets and upon its ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible could negatively affect the company consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to the cash flows of the company are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. events and conditions which could result in an impairment include changes in the industries in which the company operates, including competition and advances in technology; a significant product liability or intellectual property claim; or other factors leading to reduction in expected sales or profitability. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, the company consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. as of december 31, 2005, the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $4.9 billion, of which $3.5 billion was goodwill and $1.4 billion represented trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $10.6 billion and shareholders equity of $2.3 billion. the company may not achieve its targeted cost savings from cost reduction initiatives. the company success depends in part on its ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. the company has invested a significant amount in capital expenditure to improve its operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these as well as any failure by the company to achieve its planned cost savings could have a material adverse effect on its business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of its operations and profitability. 6 table of contents the company has a substantial amount of indebtedness. the company has indebtedness that is substantial in relation to its shareholders equity. as of december 31, 2005, the company had total debt of approximately $4.9 billion and shareholders equity of $2.3 billion. the company substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: the ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditure or general corporate purposes may be impaired, particularly if the ratings assigned to the company debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; restricting the company flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making it more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or its business; a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on the company debt, reducing the funds available to it for other purposes including expansion through acquisitions, marketing spending and expansion of its product offerings; and the company may be more leveraged than some of its competitors, which may place the company at a competitive disadvantage. the company ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance its obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on the company financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short term financing, and to financial, business and other factors beyond the company control. the results of the company may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in the company products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by the company. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, weather conditions, or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and the company is unable to increase its prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of its operations could be materially and adversely affected. cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fuelled by natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several plants for use of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of the company products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated operating results or financial condition. a shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated operating results or financial conditions. additionally, the company labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. the company sponsors a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment. the company also participates in a number of multiemployer pension plans for certain of its manufacturing locations. the company major pension plans and u.s. retiree health and welfare plans are funded, with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as a change in the assumed and actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively bargained wage and benefit agreements. the company may be unable to maintain its profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of one of the company largest customers could negatively impact its sales and profits. the company largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 17% of consolidated net sales during 2005, comprised principally of sales within the united states. at december 31, 2005, approximately 12% of the company consolidated receivables balance and 17% of the company u.s. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates. during 2005, the company top five 7 table of contents customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 31% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 42% of u.s. net sales. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass marketers become larger, the large retail customers of the company may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. if the company is unable to use its scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, the profitability or volume growth of the company could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact its sales and profits. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial condition. the company activities, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities of the european union and various state, provincial and local governments, as well as voluntary regulation by other bodies. various state and local agencies also regulate the company activities. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products is subject to governmental regulation that is becoming increasingly onerous. those regulations control such matters as ingredients, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety and the environment. the company is also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax and environmental matters. the need to comply with new or revised tax, environmental or other laws or regulations, or new or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure which could negatively impact its operating results. the company holds assets and incurs liabilities, earns revenue and pays expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the british pound, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar and mexican peso. because the company consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, the company must translate its assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar may negatively affect the value of these items in the company consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. to the extent the company fails to manage its foreign currency exposure adequately, the company consolidated results of operations may be negatively affected. if the company food products become adulterated or misbranded, it might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. the company may need to recall some of its products if they become adulterated or misbranded. the company may also be liable if the consumption of any of its products cause injury. a widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. the company could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against it. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in the company food products, which could have a material adverse effect on its business results and the value of its brands. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of the ongoing business operations and management uses derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. the company, as a matter of policy, does not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, which are included herein under part ii, item 8, for further information on accounting policies related to derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk the company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related to third-party purchases, 21 table of contents intercompany transactions, and nonfunctional currency denominated third-party debt. the company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, the company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the british pound, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, and mexican peso, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. management assesses foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational positions and enters into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in net long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements are established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2005 was $467.3 million, representing a settlement obligation of $21.9 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2004 was $375.5 million, representing a settlement obligation of $60.3 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities, and mature within 18 months. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $46.7 million at year-end 2005 and $37.5 million at year-end 2004. these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. interest rate risk the company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. management periodically uses interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, which are included herein under part ii, item 8, provides information on the company significant debt issues. there were no interest rate derivatives outstanding at year-end 2005 and 2004. assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $9.1 million in 2005 and $2.3 million in 2004. price risk the company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, paperboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. management uses the combination of long cash positions with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted purchases over a duration of generally less than one year. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2005 was $21.8 million, representing a settlement receivable of approximately $1.0 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, this settlement receivable would convert to an obligation of approximately $1.3 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying material purchases. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2004 was $61.3 million, representing a settlement obligation of $4.8 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, this settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $5.6 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying material purchases. in addition to the derivative commodity instruments discussed above, management uses long cash positions with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure. it should be noted that the exclusion of these positions from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of the company. 22 table of contentsrisk factors risk factors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. our performance is affected by general economic and political conditions and taxation policies. our results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic and political conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, political unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which we carry on business. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. we operate in the highly competitive food industry. we face competition across our product lines, including ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and 5 table of contents product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. we aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. events and conditions which could result in an impairment include changes in the industries in which we operate, including competition and advances in technology; a significant product liability or intellectual property claim; or other factors leading to reduction in expected sales or profitability. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. as of december 30, 2006, the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $4.87 billion, of which $3.45 billion was goodwill and $1.42 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $10.71 billion and shareholders equity of $2.07 billion. we may not achieve our targeted cost savings from cost reduction initiatives. our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. we have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders equity. as of december 30, 2006, we had total debt of approximately $5.04 billion and shareholders equity of $2.07 billion. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: the ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditure or general corporate purposes may be impaired, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business; a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes including expansion through acquisitions, marketing spending and expansion of our product offerings; and we may be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject 6 table of contents to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, weather conditions, or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fuelled by natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. a shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial conditions. additionally, our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. we also participate in a number of multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. our major pension plans and u.s. retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. we may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of one of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 18% of consolidated net sales during 2006, comprised principally of sales within the united states. at december 30, 2006, approximately 14% of our consolidated receivables balance and 22% of our u.s. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates. during 2006, our top five customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 33% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 42% of u.s. net sales. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass marketers become larger, our large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, including particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. 7 table of contents any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. our activities, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities of the european union and various state, provincial and local governments, as well as voluntary regulation by other bodies. various state and local agencies also regulate our activities. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products is subject to governmental regulation that is becoming increasingly onerous. those regulations control such matters as ingredients, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety and the environment. we are also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax and environmental matters. the need to comply with new or revised tax, environmental or other laws or regulations, or new or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure which could negatively impact our operating results. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the british pound, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar and mexican peso. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar may negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. to the extent we fail to manage our foreign currency exposure adequately, our consolidated results of operations may be negatively affected. if our food products become adulterated or misbranded, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury. a widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. we use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. as a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 12 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on our accounting policies related to derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related to third-party purchases, intercompany loans and product shipments, and nonfunctional currency denominated third-party debt. our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, our company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the british pound, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, and mexican peso, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. we assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in net long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements are established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2006 was $455 million, representing a settlement obligation of $1 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2005 was $467 million, representing a settlement obligation of $22 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities, and mature within 18 months. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $46 million at year-end 2006 and $47 million at year-end 2005. these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. 25 table of contents interest rate risk our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. note 7 within notes to consolidated financial statements provides information on our significant debt issues. there were no interest rate derivatives outstanding at year-end 2006 and 2005. assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $20 million in 2006 and $9 million in 2005. price risk our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, paperboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. we have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. during 2006, we entered into two separate 10-year over-the-counter commodity swap transactions to reduce fluctuations in the price of natural gas used principally in its manufacturing processes. the notional amount of the swaps totaled approximately $209 million, which currently equates to approximately 50% of our north america manufacturing needs. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2006, including the natural gas swaps, was $239 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $11 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement obligation would increase by approximately $17 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2005 was $22 million, representing a settlement receivable of approximately $1 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, this settlement receivable would convert to an obligation of approximately $1 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying material purchases. in addition to the derivative commodity instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure. it should be noted that the exclusion of these positions from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of our company. 26 table of contentsrisk factors r isk f actors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. our performance is affected by general economic and political conditions and taxation policies. our results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic and political conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, political unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which we carry on business. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. we operate in the highly competitive food industry. we face competition across our product lines, including ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. we aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our 6 table of contents new products may not be commercially successful. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. events and conditions which could result in an impairment include changes in the industries in which we operate, including competition and advances in technology; a significant product liability or intellectual property claim; or other factors leading to reduction in expected sales or profitability. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. as of december 29, 2007, the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $4.97 billion, of which $3.52 billion was goodwill and $1.45 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $11.4 billion and shareholders equity of $2.53 billion. we may not achieve our targeted cost savings from cost reduction initiatives. our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. we have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders equity. as of december 29, 2007, we had total debt of approximately $5.23 billion and shareholders equity of $2.53 billion. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: impairing the ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditure or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business; requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such as expansion through acquisitions, marketing spending and expansion of our product offerings; and causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, weather conditions, or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fuelled by natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in 7 table of contents addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. a shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial conditions. additionally, our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. we also participate in a number of multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. our major pension plans and u.s. retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. we may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of one of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 19% of consolidated net sales during 2007, comprised principally of sales within the united states. at december 29, 2007, approximately 13% of our consolidated receivables balance and 21% of our u.s. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates. during 2007, our top five customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 32% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 40% of u.s. net sales. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass marketers become larger, our large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, including particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. our activities, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities of the european union and various state, provincial and local governments, as well as voluntary regulation by other bodies. various state and local agencies also regulate our activities. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products are subject to governmental regulation that is becoming increasingly onerous. those regulations control such matters as ingredients, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety and the environment. we are also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, 8 table of contents trade and pricing practices, tax and environmental matters. the need to comply with new or revised tax, environmental or other laws or regulations, or new or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure which could negatively impact our operating results. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the british pound, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar and mexican peso. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar may negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. to the extent we fail to manage our foreign currency exposure adequately, our consolidated results of operations may be negatively affected. if our food products become adulterated or misbranded, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury. a widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. we increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. for example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. we have technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans in place or in process to mitigate our risk to these vulnerabilities, but these measures may not be adequate. q uantitative and q ualitative d isclosures about m arket r isk our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. we use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. as a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 12 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on our accounting policies related to derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related to third-party purchases, intercompany loans and product shipments. our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, our company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the british pound, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, and mexican peso, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. we assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in net long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements are established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2007 was $570 million, representing a settlement obligation of $8.6 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2006 was $455 million, representing a settlement obligation of $1 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities, and mature within 18 months. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $57 million at year-end 2007 and $46 million at year-end 2006. these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. interest rate risk our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. note 7 within notes to consolidated financial statements provides information on our significant debt issues. there were no interest rate derivatives outstanding at year-end 2007 and 2006. assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $19 million in 2007 and $20 million in 2006. price risk our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, paperboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. we have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 28 table of contents 18 months. during 2006, we entered into two separate 10-year over-the-counter commodity swap transactions to reduce fluctuations in the price of natural gas used principally in our manufacturing processes. the notional amount of the swaps totaled $188 million as of december 29, 2007 and equates to approximately 50% of our north america manufacturing needs. at year-end 2006, the notional amount was $209 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2007, including the natural gas swaps, was $229 million, representing a settlement receivable of approximately $22 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement receivable would decrease by approximately $22 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2006, including the natural gas swaps, was $239 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $11 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, this settlement obligation would increase by approximately $17 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. in addition to the derivative commodity instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure. it should be noted that the exclusion of these positions from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of our company. 29 table of contentsrisk factors risk factors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial 5 table of contents condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. our performance is affected by general economic and political conditions and taxation policies. our results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic and political conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, political unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which we carry on business. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. we operate in the highly competitive food industry. we face competition across our product lines, including ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. we aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. events and conditions which could result in an impairment include changes in the industries in which we operate, including competition and advances in technology; a significant product liability or intellectual property claim; or other factors leading to reduction in expected sales or profitability. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. as of january 3, 2009, the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $5.10 billion, of which $3.64 billion was goodwill and $1.46 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $10.95 billion and shareholders equity of $1.45 billion. we may not achieve our targeted cost savings from cost reduction initiatives. our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. we have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders equity. as of january 3, 2009, we had total debt of approximately $5.46 billion and shareholders equity of $1.45 billion. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: impairing the ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general 6 table of contents corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward. a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both; restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business; requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such as expansion through acquisitions, marketing spending and expansion of our product offerings; and causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, weather conditions, or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. our hedged price could exceed the spot price on the date of purchase, resulting in an unfavorable impact on both gross margin and net earnings. cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fuelled by natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. a shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. additionally, our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. we also participate in a number of multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. our major pension plans and u.s. retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability, including manufacturing or distribution capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. we may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of one of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 20% of consolidated net sales during 2008, comprised principally of sales within the united states. at january 3, 2009, approximately 17% of our 7 table of contents consolidated receivables balance and 27% of our u.s. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates. no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2008. during 2008, our top five customers, collectively, including wal-mart, accounted for approximately 33% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 42% of u.s. net sales. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass marketers become larger, our large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure which could negatively impact our operating results. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the british pound, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, venezuelan bolivar fuerte, russian rouble and mexican peso. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar may negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. our activities, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities of the european union and various state, provincial and local governments, as well as voluntary regulation by other bodies. various state and local agencies also regulate our activities. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products are subject to governmental regulation that is becoming increasingly burdensome. those regulations control such matters as food quality and safety, ingredients, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety and the environment. we are also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax and environmental matters. the need to comply with new or revised tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other laws or regulations, or new or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. concerns with the safety and quality of food products could cause consumers to avoid certain food products or ingredients. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. if our food products become adulterated or misbranded, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, 8 table of contents product tampering or other adulteration. we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. a widespread product recall or market withdrawal could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. for example, in january 2009, we initiated a recall of certain austin and keebler branded peanut butter sandwich crackers and certain famous amos and keebler branded peanut butter cookies as a result of potential contamination of ingredients at a supplier facility. the recall was expanded in late january and february to include bear naked , kashi and special k products impacted by that same supplier ingredients. the costs of the recall negatively impacted gross margin and operating profit in fiscal 2008. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is meritless, does not prevail or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our company and our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. we increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. for example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. we have technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans in place or in process to mitigate our risk to these vulnerabilities, but these measures may not be adequate. if we pursue strategic acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. with respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, consummate a transaction on terms that are favorable to us, or achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of integration challenges. with respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our divesture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products. retailers are increasingly offering private label products that compete with our products. consumers willingness to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products that appeal to consumers at the right price. it is also important that our products are perceived to be of a higher quality than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our products and those of store brands narrows, or if such difference in quality is perceived to have narrowed, then consumers may not buy our products. furthermore, during periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other economy brands, which could reduce sales volumes of our higher margin products or there could be a shift in our product mix to our lower margin offerings. if we are not able to maintain or improve our brand image, it could have a material affect on our market share and our profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. we use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. as a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 12 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on our accounting policies related to derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related to third-party purchases, intercompany loans and product shipments. our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, our company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the british pound, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, and mexican peso, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. in addition, we have operations located in venezuela where the local currency is exposed to a highly volatile economic environment. we assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and may enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in net long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements are established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2008 was $924 million, representing a settlement receivable of $22 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2007 was $570 million, representing a settlement obligation of $9 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities, and mature within 18 months. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement receivable would have decreased by approximately $92 million at year-end 2008 and the settlement obligation would have increased by $57 million at year-end 2007. these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. interest rate risk our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. in connection with the issuance of u.s. dollar notes on march 6, 2008, we entered into interest rate swaps. refer to disclosures contained in note 7 within notes to consolidated financial statements. there were no interest rate derivatives outstanding at year-end 2007. assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $21 million in 2008 and $19 million in 2007. price risk our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, paperboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. we have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. during 2006, we entered into two separate 10-year over-the-counter commodity swap transactions to reduce fluctuations in the price of natural gas used principally in our manufacturing processes. the notional amount of the swaps totaled $167 million as of january 3, 2009 and equates to approximately 50% of our north america manufacturing needs. at year-end 2007 the notional amount was $188 million. 26 table of contents the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2008, including the north america natural gas swaps, was $267 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $16 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement obligation would increase by approximately $24 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2007, including the natural gas swaps, was $229 million, representing a settlement receivable of approximately $22 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, this settlement receivable would decrease by approximately $22 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. in some instances the company has reciprocal collateralization agreements with counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a fair value loss position to the company or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. there were no collateral balance requirements at january 3, 2009 or december 29, 2007. in addition to the commodity derivative instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure associated with future purchases of certain raw materials, including rice, sugar, cartonboard, and corrugated boxes. the company has contracts in place with its suppliers that provide for pricing that is lower than market prices at january 3, 2009. it should be noted the exclusion of these positions from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of our company. 27 table of contentsrisk factors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, weather conditions, climate change or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. our hedged price could exceed the spot price on the date of purchase, resulting in an unfavorable impact on both gross margin and net earnings. cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fueled by natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. a shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. additionally, our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. we also participate in a number of multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. our major pension plans and u.s. retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure which could negatively impact our operating results. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the british pound, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, venezuelan bolivar fuerte, russian ruble and mexican peso. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. consequently, changes in the value of the u.s. dollar may negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. concerns with the safety and quality of food products could cause consumers to avoid certain food products or ingredients. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food 6 products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. if our food products become adulterated or misbranded, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering or other adulteration. we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. a widespread product recall or market withdrawal could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. for example, in january 2009, we initiated a recall of certain austin and keebler branded peanut butter sandwich crackers and certain famous amos and keebler branded peanut butter cookies as a result of potential contamination of ingredients at a supplier facility. the recall was expanded in late january and february to include bear naked , kashi and special k products impacted by that same supplier ingredients. the costs of the recall negatively impacted gross margin and operating profit in fiscal 2008 and 2009. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is meritless, does not prevail or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our company and our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability, including manufacturing or distribution capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. changes in tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, food quality and safety and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. our activities, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities of the european union, international accords and treaties and others, including voluntary regulation by other bodies. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products are subject to governmental regulation that is becoming increasingly burdensome. those regulations control such matters as food quality and safety, ingredients, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety and the environment. we are also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax and environmental matters. the need to comply with new or revised tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other laws or regulations, or new or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we pursue strategic acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. with respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, consummate a transaction on terms that are favorable to us, or achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of integration challenges. with respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our divesture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. our 7 corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. we aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. we operate in the highly competitive food industry. we face competition across our product lines, including ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business. there is no guarantee that the company will be successful in defending itself in civil, criminal or regulatory actions, including under environmental, food quality and safety, and environmental laws and regulations, or in asserting its rights under various laws. in addition, the company could incur substantial costs and fees in defending itself or in asserting its rights in these actions or meeting new legal requirements. the costs and other effects of potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against the company, and new legal requirements, cannot be determined with certainty and may differ from expectations. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders equity. as of january 2, 2010, we had total debt of approximately $4.9 billion and total equity of $2.3 billion. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: impairing the ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward. a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both; restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business; requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such as expansion through acquisitions, marketing spending and expansion of our product offerings; and causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. our performance is affected by general economic and political conditions and taxation policies. customer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by recession, financial and credit market disruptions, or other economic downturns in the united states or other nations. our results in the 8 past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic and political conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, political unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which we carry on business. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. we may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of one of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 21% of consolidated net sales during 2009, comprised principally of sales within the united states. at january 2, 2010, approximately 17% of our consolidated receivables balance and 26% of our u.s. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates. no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2009. during 2009, our top five customers, collectively, including wal-mart, accounted for approximately 34% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 44% of u.s. net sales. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass marketers become larger, our large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. events and conditions which could result in an impairment include changes in the industries in which we operate, including competition and advances in technology; a significant product liability or intellectual property claim; or other factors leading to reduction in expected sales or profitability. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. as of january 2, 2010, the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $5.1 billion, of which $3.6 billion was goodwill and $1.5 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $11.2 billion and total equity of $2.3 billion. economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products. retailers are increasingly offering private label products that compete with our products. consumers willingness to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products that appeal to consumers at the right price. it is also important that our products are perceived to be of a higher quality than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our products and those of store brands narrows, or if such difference in quality is perceived to have narrowed, then consumers may not buy our products. furthermore, during periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other economy brands, which could reduce sales volumes of our higher margin products or there could be a shift in our product mix to our lower margin offerings. if we are not able to maintain or improve our brand image, it could have a material affect on our market share and our profitability. we may not achieve our targeted cost savings and efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives. our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. we have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. we increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. for example, our production and 9 distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. we have technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans in place or in process to mitigate our risk to these vulnerabilities, but these measures may not be adequate. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. we use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. as a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 12 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on our derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related to third-party purchases, intercompany loans and product shipments. our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, our company is exposed to 24 volatility in the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the british pound, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, and mexican peso, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. we assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and may enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in net long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements are established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2009 was $1,588 million, representing a settlement obligation of $24 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2008 was $924 million, representing a settlement receivable of $22 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities, and mature within 18 months. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $159 million at year-end 2009 and the settlement receivable would have decreased by $92 million at year-end 2008. these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. with regard to our foreign currency exchange risk, we continue to monitor the highly volatile economic environment in venezuela. on january 8, 2010, the venezuelan government instituted a two tier official exchange rate system which was effective as of january 11, 2010. this resulted in a devaluation of the official rate that had previously been at 2.15 bolivars per $1. a preferential rate for essential items such as medical, food and heavy machinery was established at 2.6 bolivars per $1, referred to as the preferential rate . all other imports will be imported at 4.3 bolivars per $1, referred to as the oil rate . the government is compiling a list of the items it deems essential which can be imported at the preferential rate. we are in the process of determining which exchange rates will be applicable to our imports into venezuela. however, currency exchange restrictions in venezuela restrict our ability to obtain u.s. dollars at the official exchange rates. u.s. dollars may be obtained through a legal parallel exchange mechanism. we have and may continue to use this mechanism to exchange bolivars for u.s. dollars in order to satisfy u.s. dollar denominated obligations of our venezuelan operations. as such, as of the end of our 2009 fiscal year, we are using the parallel rate to translate our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollars. the impact of this change was not material to the consolidated financial statements despite rates implied by transactions in the parallel market being significantly higher than the official rates. inflation in venezuela has been at relatively high levels over the past few years. we use a blend of the national consumer price index and the consumer price index to determine whether venezuela is a highly inflationary economy. the blended index exceeded 100% during the fourth quarter of 2009 and as such, venezuela will be designated as a highly inflationary economy as of the beginning of our 2010 fiscal year. gains and losses resulting from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in earnings. we expect reported net sales and operating profit in latin america will be negatively impacted, and it could be significant to our latin america operating segment. on a consolidated basis, venezuela represents only 1% to 2% of our business; therefore, the overall impact is expected to be minimal. interest rate risk our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. during 2009 and 2008, we entered into interest rate swaps in connection with certain u.s. dollar notes. refer to disclosures contained in note 6 within notes to consolidated financial statements. the total notional amount of our interest rate swaps was $1,900 million and $750 million, as of january 2, 2010 and january 3, 2009, respectively. assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $22 million in 2009 and $21 million in 2008. price risk our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, paperboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. we have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. during 2006, we entered into two separate 10-year over-the-counter commodity swap 25 transactions to reduce fluctuations in the price of natural gas used principally in our manufacturing processes. the notional amount of the swaps totaled $146 million as of january 2, 2010 and equates to approximately 50% of our north america manufacturing needs over the remaining hedge period. at year-end 2008 the notional amount was $167 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2009, including the north america natural gas swaps, was $213 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $16 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement obligation would increase by approximately $18 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2008, including the natural gas swaps, was $267 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $16 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, this settlement obligation would increase by approximately $24 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. in some instances the company has reciprocal collateralization agreements with counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a fair value loss position to the company or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. there were no collateral balance requirements at january 2, 2010 or january 3, 2009. in addition to the commodity derivative instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure associated with future purchases of certain raw materials, including rice, sugar, cartonboard, and corrugated boxes. it should be noted the exclusion of these contracts from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of our company. 26risk factors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, weather conditions, climate change or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. our hedged price could exceed the spot price on the date of purchase, resulting in an unfavorable impact on both gross margin and net earnings. cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fueled by natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. a shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. additionally, our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. we also participate in a number of multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. our major pension plans and u.s. retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure and currency restrictions which could negatively impact our operating results. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the british pound, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso, venezuelan bolivar fuerte and russian ruble. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. consequently, changes in the value of the u.s. dollar may unpredictably and negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. concerns with the safety and quality of food products could cause consumers to avoid certain food products or ingredients. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. if our food products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. a widespread product recall or market withdrawal could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. for example, in june 6 2010, we initiated a recall of certain ready-to-eat cereals due to an odor from waxy resins used to make package liner. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is meritless, does not prevail or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our company and our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability, including manufacturing or distribution capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. changes in tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, labeling, trade, food quality and safety and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. our activities, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities of the european union, international accords and treaties and others, including voluntary regulation by other bodies. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products are subject to governmental regulation that impose additional regulatory requirements. those regulations control such matters as food quality and safety, ingredients, advertising, labeling, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety and the environment. we are also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax and environmental matters. the need to comply with new or revised tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other laws or regulations, or new or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we pursue strategic acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. with respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, consummate a transaction on terms that are favorable to us, or achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of integration challenges. with respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our divestiture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in 7 response to such changes. we aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. we operate in the highly competitive food industry. we face competition across our product lines, including ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. most of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business. there is no guarantee that the company will be successful in defending itself in civil, criminal or regulatory actions, including under environmental, food quality and safety, and environmental laws and regulations, or in asserting its rights under various laws. in addition, the company could incur substantial costs and fees in defending itself or in asserting its rights in these actions or meeting new legal requirements. the costs and other effects of potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against the company, and new legal requirements, cannot be determined with certainty and may differ from expectations. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders equity. as of january 1, 2011, we had total debt of approximately $5.9 billion and total equity of $2.2 billion. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: impairing the ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward. a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both; restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business; requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such as expansion through acquisitions, marketing spending and expansion of our product offerings; and causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. our performance is affected by general economic and political conditions and taxation policies. customer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by recession, financial and credit market disruptions, or other economic downturns in the united states or other nations. our results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic and political conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, political unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which we carry on business. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. we may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of one of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 21% of 8 consolidated net sales during 2010, comprised principally of sales within the united states. at january 1, 2011, approximately 18% of our consolidated receivables balance and 27% of our u.s. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates. no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2010. during 2010, our top five customers, collectively, including wal-mart, accounted for approximately 34% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 46% of u.s. net sales. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass marketers become larger, our large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. events and conditions which could result in an impairment include changes in the industries in which we operate, including competition and advances in technology; a significant product liability or intellectual property claim; or other factors leading to reduction in expected sales or profitability. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. as of january 1, 2011, the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $5.1 billion, of which $3.6 billion was goodwill and $1.5 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $11.8 billion and total equity of $2.2 billion. an impairment charge of $20 million was recognized in 2010 representing all of the goodwill from our 2008 acquisition of a business in china. economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products. retailers are increasingly offering private label products that compete with our products. consumers willingness to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products that appeal to consumers at the right price. it is also important that our products are perceived to be of a higher quality than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our products and those of store brands narrows, or if such difference in quality is perceived to have narrowed, then consumers may not buy our products. furthermore, during periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other economy brands, which could reduce sales volumes of our higher margin products or there could be a shift in our product mix to our lower margin offerings. if we are not able to maintain or improve our brand image, it could have a material effect on our market share and our profitability. we may not achieve our targeted cost savings and efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives. our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. we have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. we increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. for example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. we have technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans in place or in process to mitigate our risk to these vulnerabilities, but these measures may not be adequate. 9 our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. we use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. as a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 11 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on our derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related primarily to third-party purchases, intercompany transactions, and when applicable, nonfunctional currency denominated third-party debt. our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, our company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency denominated earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the british pound, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, and mexican peso, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. we assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and may enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements are established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2010 was $1,075 million, representing a settlement obligation of $20 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2009 was $1,588 million, representing a settlement obligation of $24 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities, and mature within 18 months. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $108 million at year-end 2010 and $159 million at year-end 2009. these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy as of the beginning of our 2010 fiscal year. 25 gains and losses resulting from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in earnings. as of the end of our 2009 fiscal year, we used the parallel rate to translate our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollars. in may 2010, the venezuelan government effectively eliminated the parallel market. in june 2010, several large venezuelan commercial banks began operating the transaction system for foreign currency denominated securities (sitme). we intend to use sitme to settle u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities. accordingly, we are using the sitme rate at january 1, 2011 to translate our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollars. during the second quarter of 2010, we recorded an $8 million foreign exchange gain in other income (expense), net, associated with the translation of our subsidiary financials into u.s. dollars, with the net impact for full year 2010 amounting to a $3 million gain. on a consolidated basis, venezuela represents only 1% to 2% of our business; therefore, any ongoing impact is expected to be immaterial. interest rate risk our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. during 2009 and 2008, we entered into interest rate swaps in connection with certain u.s. dollar notes. refer to disclosures contained in note 6 within notes to consolidated financial statements. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2010 was $1,900 million, representing a settlement receivable of $74 million. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2009 was $1,900 million, representing a settlement receivable of $43 million. assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $21 million at year-end 2010 and $22 million at year-end 2009. price risk our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, paperboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. we have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. during 2006, we entered into two separate 10-year over-the-counter commodity swap transactions to reduce fluctuations in the price of natural gas used principally in our manufacturing processes. the notional amount of the swaps totaled $125 million as of january 1, 2011 and equates to approximately 50% of our north america manufacturing needs over the remaining hedge period. at year-end january 2, 2010 the notional amount was $146 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2010, including the north america natural gas swaps, was $379 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $16 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2009, including the natural gas swaps, was $213 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $16 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $36 million at year-end 2010, and $18 million at year-end 2009, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. in some instances the company has reciprocal collateralization agreements with counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a fair value loss position to the company or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. there were no collateral balance requirements at january 1, 2011 or january 2, 2010. in addition to the commodity derivative instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure associated with future purchases of certain raw materials, including rice, sugar, cartonboard, and corrugated boxes. it should be noted the exclusion of these contracts from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of our company. 26risk factors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. 6 our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, weather conditions, climate change or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. our hedged price could exceed the spot price on the date of purchase, resulting in an unfavorable impact on both gross margin and net earnings. cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fueled by natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. a shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. additionally, our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. we also participate in a number of multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. our major pension plans and u.s. retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure and currency restrictions which could negatively impact our operating results. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso, venezuelan bolivar fuerte and russian ruble. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. consequently, changes in the value of the u.s. dollar may unpredictably and negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. concerns with the safety and quality of food products could cause consumers to avoid certain food products or ingredients. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. if our food products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. a widespread product recall or market withdrawal could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. for example, in june 2010, we initiated a recall of certain ready-to-eat cereals due to an odor from waxy resins found in the package liner. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our 7 brands. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is meritless, does not prevail or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our company and our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability, including manufacturing or distribution capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. changes in tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, labeling, trade, food quality and safety and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. our activities, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities of the european union, international accords and treaties and others, including voluntary regulation by other bodies. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products are subject to governmental regulation that impose additional regulatory requirements. those regulations control such matters as food quality and safety, ingredients, advertising, labeling, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety and the environment. we are also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax and environmental matters. the need to comply with new or revised tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other laws or regulations, or new or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we pursue strategic acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. with respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, consummate a transaction on terms that are favorable to us, or achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of integration challenges. with respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our divestiture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our planned acquisition of the pringles business may not occur or may not occur in the expected time frame, which may negatively affect the trading prices of our stock and our future business and financial results. completion of the planned acquisition of the pringles business is not assured and is subject to risks and uncertainties, including the risk that the necessary regulatory approvals are not obtained or that other closing conditions are not satisfied. if the acquisition is not completed, or if there are significant delays in completing the acquisition, it could negatively affect the trading prices of our common stock and our future business and financial results. we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearances and approvals required to complete the pringles acquisition or, in order to do so, we may be required to accept material restrictions or satisfy material conditions. 8 the planned acquisition of the pringles business is subject to review by regulatory authorities, and the closing of the transaction is subject to the condition that all waiting periods under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, have terminated or expired, that the european commission has issued a decision under the ec merger regulation declaring that the acquisition is compatible with the common market, and that all other applicable governmental approvals required under antitrust laws have been obtained. the acquisition is also subject to the condition that there be no preliminary or permanent injunction or other order that would make the acquisition unlawful. we can provide no assurance that these or other closing conditions will be satisfied. subject to certain limitations, we may be required to take certain actions in connection with obtaining antitrust clearances and other approvals, and we can provide no assurance as to the cost, scope or impact of the actions that may be required. such actions could be detrimental to us or have the effect of delaying or preventing the acquisition. our obligation to complete the pringles acquisition is not subject to a financing condition. we intend to finance the acquisition, in part, through debt financing. however, our obligation to complete the acquisition is not subject to a financing condition. therefore, in the event that we are unable to obtain a portion of the required financing and are not otherwise able to pay the purchase price, we will be in breach of the transaction agreement. we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the pringles acquisition at all or in the expected time frame. the success of the pringles acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining and integrating the pringles business into our existing business. we may not be able to achieve these objectives, or may not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, and the anticipated benefits and synergies therefore may not be realized fully or at all. the acquisition involves challenges and risks, including risks that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or that we will not realize a satisfactory return. any integration difficulties could decrease or eliminate the anticipated benefits and synergies of the pringles acquisition and could negatively affect the trading prices of our stock and our future business and financial results. we may incur substantial costs and liabilities relating to the pringles acquisition. in connection with entering into and completing the pringles acquisition, we may incur substantial costs and liabilities. these include transaction-related costs such as costs and expenses incurred in connection with integration or pursuing synergies, fees to advisors, fees associated with seeking regulatory approvals, and other potential costs and liabilities that, individually or in the aggregate, could be substantial. our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. we aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. we operate in the highly competitive food industry. we face competition across our product lines, including ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. most of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business. there is no guarantee that the company will be successful in defending itself in civil, criminal or regulatory actions, including under environmental, food quality and safety, and environmental laws and regulations, or in asserting its rights under various laws. in addition, the company could incur substantial 9 costs and fees in defending itself or in asserting its rights in these actions or meeting new legal requirements. the costs and other effects of potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against the company, and new legal requirements, cannot be determined with certainty and may differ from expectations. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders equity. as of december 31, 2011, we had total debt of approximately $6.0 billion and total equity of $1.8 billion and expect to incur an additional $2.0 billion in debt to consummate our pending acquisition of the pringles &reg; business from procter &amp; gamble co. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: impairing the ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward. a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both; restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business; requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such as expansion through acquisitions, marketing spending and expansion of our product offerings; and causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. our performance is affected by general economic and political conditions and taxation policies. customer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by recession, financial and credit market disruptions, or other economic downturns in the united states or other nations. our results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic and political conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, political unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which we carry on business. current economic conditions in europe may delay or reduce purchases by our customers and consumers. this could result in reductions in sales of our products, reduced acceptance of innovations, and increased price competition. deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower collections on accounts receivable which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. financial institutions may be negatively impacted by economic conditions and may consolidate or cease to do business which could result in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and increased volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of effects from a financial institution credit crisis on our business, which could include impaired credit availability and financial stability of our customers, including our suppliers, co-manufacturers and distributors. a disruption in financial markets may also have an effect on our derivative counterparties and could also impair our banking partners on which we rely for operating cash management. any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. we may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of one of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 20% of consolidated net sales during 2011, comprised principally of sales within the united states. at december 31, 2011, approximately 18% of our consolidated receivables balance and 28% of our u.s. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates. no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2011. during 2011, our top five customers, collectively, including wal-mart, accounted 10 for approximately 33% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 46% of u.s. net sales. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass marketers become larger, our large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. events and conditions which could result in an impairment include changes in the industries in which we operate, including competition and advances in technology; a significant product liability or intellectual property claim; or other factors leading to reduction in expected sales or profitability. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. as of december 31, 2011, the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $5.1 billion, of which $3.6 billion was goodwill and $1.5 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $11.9 billion and total equity of $1.8 billion. an impairment charge of $20 million was recognized in 2010 representing all of the goodwill from our 2008 acquisition of a business in china. economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products. retailers are increasingly offering private label products that compete with our products. consumers willingness to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products that appeal to consumers at the right price. it is also important that our products are perceived to be of a higher quality than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our products and those of store brands narrows, or if such difference in quality is perceived to have narrowed, then consumers may not buy our products. furthermore, during periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other economy brands, which could reduce sales volumes of our higher margin products or there could be a shift in our product mix to our lower margin offerings. if we are not able to maintain or improve our brand image, it could have a material effect on our market share and our profitability. we may not achieve our targeted cost savings and efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives. our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. we have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. we increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. for example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, as a result of updating our sap platform or due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. we have technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans in place or in process to mitigate our risk to these vulnerabilities, but these measures may not be adequate. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure 11 and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. we use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. as a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 12 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on our derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related primarily to third-party purchases, intercompany transactions, and when applicable, nonfunctional currency denominated third-party debt. our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, our company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency denominated earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, and mexican peso, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. we assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and may enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements may be established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2011 was $1,265 million, representing a settlement obligation of $7 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2010 was $1,075 million, representing a settlement obligation of $20 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities, and mature within 18 months. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $127 million at year-end 2011 and $108 million at year-end 2010. these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy as of the beginning of our 2010 fiscal year. gains and losses resulting from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in earnings. as of the end of our 2009 fiscal year, we used the parallel rate to translate our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollars. in may 2010, the venezuelan government effectively eliminated the parallel market. in june 2010, several large venezuelan commercial banks began operating the transaction system for foreign currency denominated securities (sitme). accordingly, we began using the sitme rate as of january 1, 2011 to translate our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollars. during 2010, we recorded a $3 million foreign exchange gain in other income (expense), net, associated with the translation of our subsidiary financials into u.s. dollars, with no impact during 2011. on a consolidated basis, venezuela represents less than 2% of our business; therefore, any ongoing impact is expected to be immaterial. interest rate risk our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. 27 primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. during 2011 and 2009, we entered into interest rate swaps in connection with certain u.s. dollar notes. refer to disclosures contained in note 6 within notes to consolidated financial statements. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2011 was $600 million, representing a settlement receivable of $23 million. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2010 was $1.9 billion, representing a settlement receivable of $74 million. assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $18 million at year-end 2011 and $21 million at year-end 2010. price risk our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, cartonboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. we have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. during 2006, we entered into two separate 10-year over-the-counter commodity swap transactions to reduce fluctuations in the price of natural gas used principally in our manufacturing processes. the notional amount of the swaps totaled $104 million as of december 31, 2011 and equates to approximately 50% of our north america manufacturing needs over the remaining hedge period. at year-end january 1, 2011 the notional amount was $125 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2011, including the north america natural gas swaps, was $175 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $48 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2010, including the natural gas swaps, was $379 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $16 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $12 million at year-end 2011, and $36 million at year-end 2010, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. in some instances the company has reciprocal collateralization agreements with counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a net liability position to the company or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. as of december 31, 2011, we had posted collateral of $2 million in the form of cash, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet. there was no collateral balance requirement at january 1, 2011. in addition to the commodity derivative instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure associated with future purchases of certain raw materials, including rice, sugar, cartonboard, and corrugated boxes. it should be noted the exclusion of these contracts from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of our company. 28risk factors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, weather conditions, climate change or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. our hedged price could exceed the spot price on the date of purchase, resulting in an unfavorable impact on both gross margin and net earnings. cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fueled by natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. a shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. additionally, our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. we also participate in a number of multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. our major pension plans and u.s. retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure and currency restrictions which could negatively impact our operating results. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso, venezuelan bolivar fuerte and russian ruble. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. consequently, changes in the value of the u.s. dollar may unpredictably and negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. if our food products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. a widespread product recall or market withdrawal could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. for example, in october 2012, we initiated a recall of certain packages of mini-wheats cereal due to the possible presence of fragments of flexible metal mesh from a faulty manufacturing part. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is meritless, does not prevail or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our company and our products or 7 processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. we could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability, including manufacturing or distribution capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. evolving tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, labeling, trade, food quality and safety and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. our activities, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities of the european union, international accords and treaties and others, including voluntary regulation by other bodies. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products are subject to governmental regulation that impose additional regulatory requirements. those regulations control such matters as food quality and safety, ingredients, advertising, labeling, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety and the environment. we are also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax and environmental matters. the need to comply with new or revised tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other laws or regulations, or new or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, termination of necessary licenses or permits, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. even if regulatory review does not result in these types of determinations, it could potentially create negative publicity which could harm our business or reputation. if we pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. with respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, consummate a transaction on terms that are favorable to us, or achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of integration challenges. with respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our divestiture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. our profits earned outside the u.s. are generally taxed at lower rates than the u.s. statutory rates. the cash we generate outside the u.s. is principally to be used to fund our international development. if the funds generated by our u.s. business are not sufficient to meet our need for cash in the u.s., we may need to repatriate a portion of our future international earnings to the u.s. such international earnings would be subject to u.s. tax which could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase. 8 we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the u.s. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. there can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. we may not be able to fully realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the pringles acquisition or in the expected time frame. the overall success of the pringles acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining and integrating the pringles business into our existing business. we may not be able to fully achieve these objectives, or may not be able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, and the anticipated future benefits and synergies therefore may not be realized fully or at all. we may also incur unanticipated costs. the acquisition involves challenges and risks, including risks that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or that we will not realize a satisfactory return. any integration difficulties could decrease or eliminate the anticipated benefits and synergies of the pringles acquisition and could negatively affect the trading prices of our stock and our future business and financial results. our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. we aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. we operate in the highly competitive food industry. we face competition across our product lines, including ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. most of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business. there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending our self in civil, criminal or regulatory actions, including under general, commercial, employment, environmental, food quality and safety, anti-trust and trade, and environmental laws and regulations, or in asserting its rights under various laws. in addition, we could incur substantial costs and fees in defending our self or in asserting our rights in these actions or meeting new legal requirements. the costs and other effects of potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against us, and new legal requirements, cannot be determined with certainty and may differ from expectations. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders equity. as of december 29, 2012, we had total debt of approximately $7.9 billion and total kellogg company equity of $2.4 billion. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: impairing the ability to access global capital markets to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate 9 purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward or if a rating organization announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade; a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both; restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business; requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such as expansion through acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing shares, marketing spending and expansion of our product offerings; and causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. our performance is affected by general economic and political conditions and taxation policies. customer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by recession, financial and credit market disruptions, or other economic downturns in the united states or other nations. our results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic and political conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, political unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which we carry on business. current economic conditions globally, particularly in europe may delay or reduce purchases by our customers and consumers. this could result in reductions in sales of our products, reduced acceptance of innovations, and increased price competition. deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower collections on accounts receivable which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. financial institutions may be negatively impacted by economic conditions and may consolidate or cease to do business which could result in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and increased volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of effects from a financial institution credit crisis on our business, which could include impaired credit availability and financial stability of our customers, including our suppliers, co-manufacturers and distributors. a disruption in financial markets may also have an effect on our derivative counterparties and could also impair our banking partners on which we rely for operating cash management. any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of one of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 20% of consolidated net sales during 2012, comprised principally of sales within the united states. at december 29, 2012, approximately 18% of our consolidated receivables balance and 26% of our u.s. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates. no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2012. during 2012, our top five customers, collectively, including wal-mart, accounted for approximately 33% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 45% of u.s. net sales. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass marketers become larger, our large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair 10 value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. events and conditions which could result in an impairment include changes in the industries in which we operate, including competition and advances in technology; a significant product liability or intellectual property claim; or other factors leading to reduction in expected sales or profitability. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. as of december 29, 2012, the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $7.4 billion, of which $5.0 billion was goodwill and $2.4 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $15.2 billion and total kellogg company equity of $2.4 billion. our postretirement benefit-related costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of postretirement medical and pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of increased usage of medical benefits by retired employees and medical cost inflation, the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension and post-retirement plan assets, potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations, and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension and post-retirement plan assets assumptions. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. the company accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, particularly those due to the change in the fair value of pension and post-retirement plan assets and interest rates. in addition, funding requirements for our plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns, and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension and post-retirement funding obligations. multiemployer pension plans could adversely affect our business. we participate in various multiemployer pension plans administered by labor unions representing some of our employees. we make periodic contributions to these plans to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. our required contributions to these funds could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these funds, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. our withdrawal liability for any multiemployer plan would depend on the extent of the plan funding of vested benefits. in the ordinary course of our renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that maintain these plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in a plan, and in that event, we could face a withdrawal liability. some multiemployer plans in which we participate are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products. retailers are increasingly offering private label products that compete with our products. consumers willingness to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products that appeal to consumers at the right price. it is also important that our products are perceived to be of a higher quality than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our products and those of store brands narrows, or if such difference in quality is perceived to have narrowed, then consumers may not buy our products. furthermore, during periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other economy brands, which could reduce sales volumes of our higher margin products or there could be a shift in our product mix to our lower margin offerings. if we are not able to maintain or improve our brand image, it could have a material effect on our market share and our profitability. we may not achieve our targeted cost savings and efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives. our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. we have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and 11 on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. we increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. for example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, as a result of updating our sap platform or due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. moreover, our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks. these events could compromise our confidential information, impede or interrupt our business operations, and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, litigation and reputational damage. to date, we have not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity. while we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other preventive actions to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, they may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. our results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands. we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers, kellogg and third parties increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about kellogg, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our brands and reputation. if we do not maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our results could be negatively impacted. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. we use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. as a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 12 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on our derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related primarily to third-party purchases, intercompany transactions, and when applicable, nonfunctional currency denominated third-party debt. our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, our company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency denominated earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, and mexican peso, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. we assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and may enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements may be established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2012 was $570 million, representing a settlement receivable of $1 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2011 was $1.3 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $7 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities, and mature within 18 months. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement receivable would have decreased by approximately $57 million at year-end 2012 and the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $127 million at year-end 2011. these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy as of the beginning of our 2010 fiscal year. gains and losses resulting from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in earnings. as of the end of our 2009 fiscal year, we used the parallel rate to translate our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollars. in may 2010, the venezuelan government effectively eliminated the parallel market. in june 2010, several large venezuelan commercial banks began operating the transaction system for foreign currency denominated securities (sitme). accordingly, we began using the sitme rate as of january 1, 2011 to translate our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollars. during 2010, we recorded a $3 million foreign exchange gain in other income (expense), net, associated with the translation of our subsidiary financials into u.s. dollars, with no impact during 2012 or 2011. in february 2013, the venezuelan government announced a 46.5% devaluation of the official exchange rate. additionally, the sitme was eliminated. accordingly, in 2013 we will begin using the official exchange rate to translate our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollar. on a consolidated basis, venezuela represents less than 2% of our business; therefore, any ongoing impact is expected to be immaterial. interest rate risk our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs 29 associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. during 2012 and 2011, we entered into interest rate swaps in connection with certain u.s. dollar notes. refer to disclosures contained in note 6 within notes to consolidated financial statements. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2012 was $2.2 billion, representing a settlement receivable of $64 million. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2011 was $600 million, representing a settlement receivable of $23 million. assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $24 million at year-end 2012 and $18 million at year-end 2011. price risk our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, cartonboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. we have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. during 2006, we entered into two separate 10-year over-the-counter commodity swap transactions to reduce fluctuations in the price of natural gas used principally in our manufacturing processes. the notional amount of the swaps totaled $84 million as of december 29, 2012 and equates to approximately 50% of our north america manufacturing needs over the remaining hedge period. at year-end december 31, 2011 the notional amount was $104 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2012, including the north america natural gas swaps, was $136 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $36 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2011, including the natural gas swaps, was $175 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $48 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $9 million at year-end 2012, and $12 million at year-end 2011, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. in addition to the commodity derivative instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure associated with future purchases of certain raw materials, including rice, sugar, cartonboard, and corrugated boxes. it should be noted the exclusion of these contracts from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of our company. reciprocal collateralization agreements in some instances we have reciprocal collateralization agreements with counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a net liability position to us or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. as of december 29, 2012, we had received $8 million cash collateral from a counterparty, which was reflected as a decrease in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. as of december 31, 2011, we had posted collateral of $2 million in the form of cash, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet. 30risk factors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. 6 we may not realize the benefits that we expect from our global four-year efficiency and effectiveness program (project k). in november 2013, the company announced a global four-year efficiency and effectiveness program (project k). the successful implementation of project k presents significant organizational design and infrastructure challenges and in many cases will require successful negotiations with third parties, including labor organizations, suppliers, business partners, and other stakeholders. in addition, the project may not advance our business strategy as expected. as a result, we may not be able to implement project k as planned, including realizing, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits from our program. events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. if we are unable to realize the anticipated savings of the program, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. any failure to implement project k in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the complexity of project k will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must successfully implement administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of project k. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial or other systems, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. as a result our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected. our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, weather conditions, climate change or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. our hedged price could exceed the spot price on the date of purchase, resulting in an unfavorable impact on both gross margin and net earnings. cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fueled by natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. a shortage in the labor pool, failure to successfully negotiate collectively bargained agreements, or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. additionally, our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. we also participate in a number of multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. our major pension plans and u.s. retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. many of our employees are covered by collectively-bargained agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collectively-bargained agreements. strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. the terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. 7 multiemployer pension plans could adversely affect our business. we participate in various multiemployer pension plans administered by labor unions representing some of our employees. we make periodic contributions to these plans to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. our required contributions to these funds could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these funds, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. our withdrawal liability for any multiemployer plan would depend on the extent of the plan funding of vested benefits. in the ordinary course of our renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that maintain these plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in a plan, and in that event, we could face a withdrawal liability. some multiemployer plans in which we participate are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. we operate in the highly competitive food industry. we face competition across our product lines, including ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. most of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. we may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of one of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 21% of consolidated net sales during 2013, comprised principally of sales within the united states. at december 28, 2013, approximately 18% of our consolidated receivables balance and 30% of our u.s. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates. no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2013. during 2013, our top five customers, collectively, including wal-mart, accounted for approximately 32% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 45% of u.s. net sales. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass marketers become larger, our large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. our results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands. we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers, kellogg and third parties increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about kellogg, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our brands and reputation. if we do not maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our results could be negatively impacted. tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. our profits earned outside the u.s. are generally taxed at lower rates than the u.s. statutory rates. the cash we generate outside the u.s. is principally to be used to fund our international development. if the funds generated by our u.s. business are not sufficient to meet our need for cash in the u.s., we may need to repatriate a portion of our future international earnings to the u.s. such international earnings would be subject to u.s. tax which could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase. 8 we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the u.s. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. there can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active, for example, in mexico, or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. if our food products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. a widespread product recall or market withdrawal could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. for example, in october 2012, we initiated a recall of certain packages of mini-wheats cereal due to the possible presence of fragments of flexible metal mesh from a faulty manufacturing part. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is meritless, does not prevail or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our company and our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. we could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability, including manufacturing or distribution capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. evolving tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, labeling, trade, food quality and safety and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. our activities, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities outside the united states, international accords and treaties and others, including voluntary regulation by other bodies. in addition, legal and regulatory systems in emerging and developing markets may be less developed, and less certain. these laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products are subject to governmental regulation that impose additional regulatory requirements. those regulations control such matters as food quality and safety, ingredients, advertising, product or production requirements, labeling, import or export of our products or ingredients, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety, the environment, and restrictions on the use of government programs, such as supplemental nutrition assistance program, to purchase certain of our products. we are also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax, 9 anticorruption standards, and environmental matters. the need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other laws or regulations, or new, evolving or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, termination of necessary licenses or permits, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. even if regulatory review does not result in these types of determinations, it could potentially create negative publicity or perceptions which could harm our business or reputation. our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure and currency restrictions which could negatively impact our operating results. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso, venezuelan bolivar fuerte and russian ruble. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. consequently, changes in the value of the u.s. dollar may unpredictably and negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. if we pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. with respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, consummate a transaction on terms that are favorable to us, or achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of integration challenges. with respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our divestiture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we may not be able to fully realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the pringles acquisition or in the expected time frame. the overall success of the pringles acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining and integrating the pringles business into our existing business. we may not be able to fully achieve these objectives, or may not be able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, and the anticipated future benefits and synergies therefore may not be realized fully or at all. we may also incur unanticipated costs. the acquisition involves challenges and risks, including risks that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or that we will not realize a satisfactory return. any integration difficulties could decrease or eliminate the anticipated benefits and synergies of the pringles acquisition and could negatively affect the trading prices of our stock and our future business and financial results. potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business. there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending our self in civil, criminal or regulatory actions, including under general, commercial, employment, environmental, food quality and safety, anti-trust and trade, and environmental laws and regulations, or in asserting its rights under various laws. in addition, we could incur substantial costs and fees in defending our self or in asserting our rights in these actions or meeting new legal requirements. the costs and other effects of potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against us, and new legal requirements, cannot be determined with certainty and may differ from expectations. our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in 10 response to such changes. we aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. our postretirement benefit-related costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of postretirement medical and pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of increased usage of medical benefits by retired employees and medical cost inflation, the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension and post-retirement plan assets, potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations, and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension and post-retirement plan assets assumptions. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. the company accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, particularly those due to the change in the fair value of pension and post-retirement plan assets and interest rates. in addition, funding requirements for our plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns, and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension and post-retirement funding obligations. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders equity. as of december 28, 2013, we had total debt of approximately $7.4 billion and total kellogg company equity of $3.5 billion. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: impairing the ability to access global capital markets to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward or if a rating organization announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade; a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both; restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business; requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such as expansion through acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing shares, marketing spending and expansion of our product offerings; and causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. our performance is affected by general economic and political conditions and taxation policies. customer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by recession, financial and credit market disruptions, or other economic downturns in the united states or other nations. our results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic and political conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, political unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which we carry on business. current economic conditions globally may delay or reduce purchases by our customers and consumers. this could result in reductions in sales of our products, reduced acceptance of innovations, and increased price competition. deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower collections on accounts receivable which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. financial institutions 11 may be negatively impacted by economic conditions and may consolidate or cease to do business which could result in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and increased volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of effects from a financial institution credit crisis on our business, which could include impaired credit availability and financial stability of our customers, including our suppliers, co-manufacturers and distributors. a disruption in financial markets may also have an effect on our derivative counterparties and could also impair our banking partners on which we rely for operating cash management. any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. events and conditions which could result in an impairment include changes in the industries in which we operate, including competition and advances in technology; a significant product liability or intellectual property claim; or other factors leading to reduction in expected sales or profitability. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. as of december 28, 2013, the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $7.4 billion, of which $5.0 billion was goodwill and $2.4 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $15.5 billion and total kellogg company equity of $3.5 billion. economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products. retailers are increasingly offering private label products that compete with our products. consumers willingness to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products that appeal to consumers at the right price. it is also important that our products are perceived to be of a higher quality than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our products and those of store brands narrows, or if such difference in quality is perceived to have narrowed, then consumers may not buy our products. furthermore, during periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other economy brands, which could reduce sales volumes of our higher margin products or there could be a shift in our product mix to our lower margin offerings. if we are not able to maintain or improve our brand image, it could have a material effect on our market share and our profitability. we may not achieve our targeted cost savings and efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives. our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. we have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. we increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. for example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. information technology systems are also integral to the reporting of our results of operations. furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between, and storage of personal data of, our personnel, customers, consumers and suppliers depends on information technology. our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, as a result of updating our sap platform or due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. moreover, our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks. these events could compromise our confidential information, impede or interrupt our business operations, and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, litigation and reputational damage. furthermore, if a breach or other breakdown results in disclosure of confidential or personal information, we may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm. to date, we have not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity. while 12 we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other preventive actions to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, they may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. we use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. as a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 12 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on our derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related primarily to third-party purchases, intercompany transactions, and when applicable, nonfunctional currency denominated third-party debt. our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, our company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency denominated earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, and mexican peso, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. we assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and may enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements may be established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2013 was $517 million, representing a settlement obligation of $1 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2012 was $570 million, representing a settlement receivable of $1 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities, and mature within 18 months. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $52 million at year-end 2013 and the settlement receivable would have decreased by approximately $57 million at year-end 2012. these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy as of the beginning of our 2010 fiscal year. gains and losses resulting from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in earnings. for 2012 and 2011, the impact of the translation of our 31 venezuelan subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollars was not significant. in february 2013, the venezuelan government announced a 46.5% devaluation of the official exchange rate. additionally, the transaction system for foreign currency denominated securities (sitme), used between may 2010 and january 2013 to translate our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollars, was eliminated. accordingly, in february 2013 we began using the official exchange rate to translate our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollars. during 2013 we recognized a $15 million charge as a result of the devaluation of the official venezuelan exchange rate. at year-end 2013, our venezuela subsidiary bolivar fuerte-denominated net monetary asset position, which would be subject to remeasurement in the event of a further devaluation, was approximately $63 million. interest rate risk our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. during 2013 and 2012, we entered into interest rate swaps in connection with certain u.s. dollar notes. refer to disclosures contained in note 6 within notes to consolidated financial statements. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2013 was $2.4 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $59 million. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2012 was $2.2 billion, representing a settlement receivable of $64 million. assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $35 million at year-end 2013 and $24 million at year-end 2012. price risk our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, cartonboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. we have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. during 2006, we entered into two separate 10-year over-the-counter commodity swap transactions to reduce fluctuations in the price of natural gas used principally in our manufacturing processes. the notional amount of the swaps totaled $63 million as of december 28, 2013 and equates to approximately 50% of our north america manufacturing needs over the remaining hedge period. at year-end december 29, 2012 the notional amount was $84 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2013, including the north america natural gas swaps, was $361 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $32 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2012, including the natural gas swaps, was $320 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $36 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $18 million at year-end 2013, and $9 million at year-end 2012, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. in addition to the commodity derivative instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure associated with future purchases of certain raw materials, including rice, sugar, cartonboard, and corrugated boxes. it should be noted the exclusion of these contracts from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of our company. reciprocal collateralization agreements in some instances we have reciprocal collateralization agreements with counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a net liability position to us or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. as of december 28, 2013, we had posted collateral of $9 million in the form of cash, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet. as of december 29, 2012, we had received $8 million cash collateral from a counterparty, which was reflected as a decrease in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. 32risk factors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. we may not realize the benefits that we expect from our global four-year efficiency and effectiveness program (project k). in november 2013, the company announced a global four-year efficiency and effectiveness program (project k). the successful implementation of project k presents significant organizational design and infrastructure challenges and in many cases will require successful negotiations with third parties, including labor organizations, suppliers, business partners, and other stakeholders. in addition, the project may not advance our business strategy as expected. as a result, we may not be able to 6 implement project k as planned, including realizing, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits from our program. events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. if we are unable to realize the anticipated savings of the program, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. any failure to implement project k in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the complexity of project k will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must successfully implement administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of project k. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial or other systems, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. as a result our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected. our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, weather conditions, climate change or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. our hedged price could exceed the spot price on the date of purchase, resulting in an unfavorable impact on both gross margin and net earnings. cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fueled by natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. a shortage in the labor pool, failure to successfully negotiate collectively bargained agreements, or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. we sponsor a number of benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. we also participate in a number of multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. our major pension plans and u.s. retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. many of our employees are covered by collectively-bargained agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collectively-bargained agreements. strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. the terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. multiemployer pension plans could adversely affect our business. we participate in various multiemployer pension plans administered by labor unions representing some of our employees. we make periodic contributions to these plans to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. our required contributions to these funds could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these funds, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in one of these plans, 7 then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. our withdrawal liability for any multiemployer plan would depend on the extent of the plan funding of vested benefits. in the ordinary course of our renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that maintain these plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in a plan, and in that event, we could face a withdrawal liability. some multiemployer plans in which we participate are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. we operate in the highly competitive food industry. we face competition across our product lines, including ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. most of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. we may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of one of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 21% of consolidated net sales during 2014, comprised principally of sales within the united states. at january 3, 2015, approximately 19% of our consolidated receivables balance and 28% of our u.s. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates. no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2014. during 2014, our top five customers, collectively, including wal-mart, accounted for approximately 33% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 47% of u.s. net sales. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass marketers become larger, our large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. our results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands. we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers, kellogg and third parties increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about kellogg, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our brands and reputation, regardless of the information accuracy. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. brand recognition can also be impacted by the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and marketing programs, as well as our use of social media. if we do not maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our results could be negatively impacted. tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to taxes in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions where the company subsidiaries are organized. due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various foreign jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. the future effective tax rate could be effected by changes in mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in valuation of deferred tax asset and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation which includes possible u.s. tax reform and contemplated changes in the uk and other countries of long-standing tax principles if finalized and adopted could have a material impact on our income tax expense and deferred tax balances. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service and other taxing authorities with respect to taxes inside and outside of the u.s. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and 8 penalties. there can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. the cash we generate outside the u.s. is principally to be used to fund our international development. if the funds generated by our u.s. business are not sufficient to meet our need for cash in the u.s., we may need to repatriate a portion of our future international earnings to the u.s. such international earnings would be subject to u.s. tax which could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase. we also need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax laws and regulations. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active, or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. if our food products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. a widespread product recall or market withdrawal could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is meritless, does not prevail or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our company and our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. we could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability, including manufacturing or distribution capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. evolving tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, labeling, trade, food quality and safety and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. our activities or products, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities outside of the united states, international accords and treaties and others, including voluntary regulation by other bodies. in addition, legal and regulatory systems in emerging and developing markets may be less developed, and less certain. these laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products are subject to governmental regulation that impose additional regulatory requirements. those regulations control such matters as food quality and safety, ingredients, advertising, product or production requirements, labeling, import or export of our products or ingredients, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety, the environment, and restrictions on the use of government programs, such as supplemental nutritional assistance program, to purchase certain of our products. we are also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax, anticorruption standards, advertising and claims, and environmental matters. the need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax, environmental, food quality and safety, labeling or other laws or regulations, or new, evolving or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have 9 a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, termination of necessary licenses or permits, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. even if regulatory review does not result in these types of determinations, it could potentially create negative publicity or perceptions which could harm our business or reputation. our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure and currency restrictions which could negatively impact our operating results. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso, venezuelan bolivar fuerte and russian ruble. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. consequently, changes in the value of the u.s. dollar may unpredictably and negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. if we pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. with respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, consummate a transaction on terms that are favorable to us, or achieve expected returns, expected synergies and other benefits as a result of integration challenges, or may not achieve those objectives on a timely basis. with respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our divestiture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business. there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending our self in civil, criminal or regulatory actions, including under general, commercial, employment, environmental, food quality and safety, anti-trust and trade, advertising and claims, and environmental laws and regulations, or in asserting its rights under various laws. for example, our marketing or claims could face allegations of false or deceptive advertising or other criticisms which could end up in litigation and result in potential liabilities or costs. in addition, we could incur substantial costs and fees in defending our self or in asserting our rights in these actions or meeting new legal requirements. the costs and other effects of potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against us, and new legal requirements, cannot be determined with certainty and may differ from expectations. our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. we aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. our postretirement benefit-related costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of postretirement medical and pension benefits may continue and negatively affect 10 our business as a result of increased usage of medical benefits by retired employees and medical cost inflation, the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension and post-retirement plan assets, potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations, and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension and post-retirement plan assets assumptions. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. the company accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, particularly those due to the change in the fair value of pension and post-retirement plan assets and interest rates. in addition, funding requirements for our plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns, and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension and post-retirement funding obligations. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders equity. as of january 3, 2015, we had total debt of approximately $7.4 billion and total kellogg company equity of $2.8 billion. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: impairing the ability to access global capital markets to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward or if a rating organization announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade; a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both; restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business; requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such as expansion through acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing shares, marketing spending and expansion of our product offerings; and causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. our performance is affected by general economic and political conditions and taxation policies. customer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by recession, financial and credit market disruptions, or other economic downturns in the united states or other nations. our results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic and political conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, political unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which we carry on business. current economic conditions globally may delay or reduce purchases by our customers and consumers. this could result in reductions in sales of our products, reduced acceptance of innovations, and increased price competition. deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower collections on accounts receivable which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. financial institutions may be negatively impacted by economic conditions and may consolidate or cease to do business which could result in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and increased volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of effects from a financial institution credit crisis on our business, which could include impaired credit availability and financial stability of our customers, including our suppliers, co-manufacturers and distributors. a disruption in financial markets may also have an effect on our derivative counterparties and could also impair our banking partners on which we rely for operating cash management. any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying 11 value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. factors which could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: (i) reduced demand for our products; (ii) higher commodity prices; (iii) lower prices for our products or increased marketing as a result of increased competition; and (iv) significant disruptions to our operations as a result of both internal and external events. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. as of january 3, 2015, the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $7.3 billion, of which $5.0 billion was goodwill and $2.3 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $15.1 billion and total kellogg company equity of $2.8 billion. we must leverage our brand value to compete against retailer brands and other economy brands. in nearly all of our product categories, we compete with well-branded products as well as retailer and other economy brands. our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and retailer or other economy brands change in favor of competitors products or if consumers perceive this type of change. if consumers prefer retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose category share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings, which could have a material effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. we may not achieve our targeted cost savings and efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives. our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. we have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. we increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. for example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. information technology systems are also integral to the reporting of our results of operations. furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between, and storage of personal data of, our personnel, customers, consumers and suppliers depends on information technology. our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, as a result of updating our enterprise platform or due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. moreover, our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks. these events could compromise our confidential information, impede or interrupt our business operations, and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, litigation and reputational damage. furthermore, if a breach or other breakdown results in disclosure of confidential or personal information, we may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm. to date, we have not experienced a material breach of cyber security. while we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other preventive actions to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, they may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. 12 we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. we are subject to risks generally associated with companies that operate globally. we are a global company and generated 39% of our 2014 and 2013 net sales, and 37% of our 2012 net sales outside the united states. we manufacture our products in 20 countries and have operations in more than 180 countries, so we are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, such as ofac trade sanction regulations and anti-boycott regulations, compliance with anti-corruption laws, including u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and u.k. bribery act (ukba), compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple regimes, changes in tax laws, interpretation of tax laws and tax audit outcomes, fluctuations in currency values, especially in emerging markets, changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies, increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the credit worthiness of local governments, varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights, greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles, design and implementation of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base, and imposition of more or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, and similar restrictions on our sales or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. we could also be adversely impacted by continued instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries in the european union or the dynamics associated with the federal and state debt and budget challenges in the united states. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets. however, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. in many countries outside of the united states, particularly those with emerging economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the fcpa and the ukba, or local anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand and improve their production capacities. our success in emerging markets is critical to our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and currency volatility, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. we use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. as a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 12 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on our derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related primarily to third-party purchases, intercompany transactions, and when applicable, nonfunctional currency denominated third-party debt. our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, our company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency denominated earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound, mexican peso, australian dollar, canadian dollar, venezuelan bolivar fuerte, and russian ruble, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. we assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and may enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements may be established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2014 was $764 million, representing a settlement receivable of $23 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2013 was $517 million, representing a settlement obligation of $1 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities, and mature within 18 months. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement receivable would have become a settlement obligation of $53 million at year-end 2014 and the settlement obligation at year-end 2013 would have increased by approximately $52 million. these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy as of the beginning of our 2010 fiscal year. gains and losses resulting from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in earnings. in february 2013, the venezuelan government announced a 46.5% devaluation of the official cadivi (now named cencoex) exchange rate from 4.3 bolivars to 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. additionally, the transaction system for foreign currency denominated securities (sitme), used between may 2010 and january 2013 to translate our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollars, was eliminated. accordingly, in february 2013 we began using the cencoex exchange rate to translate our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollars and in 2013, we recognized a $15 million charge as a result of the devaluation of the cencoex exchange rate. the cencoex exchange is restricted to some raw materials, finished goods, and machinery for sectors considered as national priorities, which is primarily food and medicines. in march, 2013, the venezuelan government announced a new auction-based currency transaction program referred to as sicad1. sicad1 allows entities in specific sectors to bid for u.s. dollars to be used for specified import transactions, with the minimum exchange rate to be offered being 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. as of january 3, 2015, the published sicad1 rate offered was 12.0 bolivars to the u.s. dollar and availability of u.s. dollars at either exchange rate continues to be limited. in january, 2014, the venezuelan government announced the expansion of the sicad1 auction program to prospective dividends and royalties and new profit margin controls. as our venezuelan subsidiary declares dividends or pays royalties in the future, based on the availability of u.s. dollars exchanged under the sicad1 program, the realized 34 exchange losses on payments made in u.s. dollars would be recognized in earnings. on profit margin controls, we continue to ensure we are complying with the requirements. in february 2014, the venezuelan government announced plans to launch a third foreign exchange mechanism, known as sicad2, which became operational on march 24, 2014. sicad2 relies on u.s. dollar cash and u.s. dollar denominated bonds offered by the venezuelan central bank, pdvsa (the national oil and gas company) and private companies. the venezuelan government has allowed that all industry sectors will be able to access sicad2 and indicated that its use will not be restricted as to purpose. as of january 3, 2015, the published sicad2 rate was 51.0 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. in february 2015, the venezuelan government announced plans to launch a new foreign exchange mechanism, known as simadi, which is expected to become operational in 2015. the simadi exchange mechanism, which will replace sicad2, has been reported to be an open market in which rates will be determined based on supply and demand. in light of the current difficult macroeconomic environment in venezuela, we continue to monitor and actively manage our investment and exposures in venezuela. our venezuelan business does not rely heavily on imports and when items are imported, they are largely exchanged at the cencoex rate. as of january 3, 2015 we translated our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollars using the cencoex exchange rate. we will continue to monitor local conditions, our continued ability to obtain u.s. dollars at the cencoex exchange rate, and the use, if applicable, of the sicad1, sicad2 or simadi, once operational, mechanisms to determine the appropriate rate for translation. for fiscal year 2014, venezuela represented approximately 2% of total net sales and 3% of total comparable operating profit. as of january 3, 2015, our net monetary assets denominated in the venezuelan bolivar were approximately $100 million in u.s. dollars applying the cencoex exchange rate. if the cencoex exchange rate were to devalue further or if the currently less favorable sicad1 exchange rate were extended to apply to a greater portion of our net monetary assets in venezuela, we would recognize a devaluation charge in earnings. the potential unfavorable fully diluted eps impact of adopting the sicad1 exchange rate, at the current rate of 12.0 bolivars to the u.s. dollar, would be approximately $.12 for the revaluation of our net monetary assets denominated in the venezuelan bolivar at january 3, 2015 and approximately $.06 for the translation of forecasted after-tax operating profit during 2015. the potential unfavorable fully diluted eps impact of adopting the sicad2 exchange rate, at the current rate of 51.0 bolivars to the u.s. dollar, would be approximately $.21 for the revaluation of our net monetary assets denominated in the venezuelan bolivar at january 3, 2015 and approximately $.12 for the translation of forecasted after-tax operating profit during 2015. we continue to monitor the currency developments in venezuela and take protective measures against currency devaluation which may include converting monetary assets into non-monetary assets which we can use in our business. interest rate risk our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. in 2014 and prior years we entered into interest rate swaps in connection with certain u.s. dollar notes. refer to disclosures contained in note 6 within notes to consolidated financial statements. during 2014, we entered into forward starting interest swaps with notional amounts totaling 500 million (approximately $600 million usd as of january 3, 2015), as a hedge against interest rate volatility associated with a forecasted issuance of fixed rate debt to be used for general corporate purposes. these swaps were designated as cash flow hedges. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2014 was $3 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $12 million. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2013 was $2.4 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $59 million. assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $36 million at year-end 2014 and $35 million at year-end 2013. price risk our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, cartonboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. we have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. during 2006, we entered into two separate 10-year over-the-counter commodity swap transactions to reduce fluctuations in the price of natural gas used principally in our manufacturing 35 processes. the notional amount of the swaps totaled $42 million as of january 3, 2015 and equates to approximately 50% of our north america manufacturing needs over the remaining hedge period. at year-end december 28, 2013 the notional amount was $63 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2014, including the north america natural gas swaps, was $492 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $56 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2013, including the natural gas swaps, was $361 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $32 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $31 million at year-end 2014, and $18 million at year-end 2013, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. in addition to the commodity derivative instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure associated with future purchases of certain raw materials, including rice, sugar, cartonboard, and corrugated boxes. it should be noted the exclusion of these contracts from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of our company. reciprocal collateralization agreements in some instances we have reciprocal collateralization agreements with counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a net liability position to us or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. as of january 3, 2015, we had no collateral posting requirements related to reciprocal collateralization agreements. as of december 28, 2013, we had posted collateral of $9 million in the form of cash, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet. as of january 3, 2015, and december 28, 2013, we posted $50 million and $12 million, respectively, in margin deposits for exchange-traded commodity derivative instruments, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet. 36risk factors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. we may not realize the benefits that we expect from our global four-year efficiency and effectiveness program (project k). in november 2013, the company announced a global four-year efficiency and effectiveness program (project k). the successful implementation of project k presents significant organizational design and infrastructure challenges and in many cases will require successful negotiations with third parties, including labor organizations, suppliers, business partners, and other stakeholders. in addition, the project may not advance our business strategy as expected. as a result, we may not be able to implement project k as planned, including realizing, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits from our program. events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. if we are unable to realize the anticipated savings of the program, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. any failure to implement project k in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the complexity of project k will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must successfully implement administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of project k. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial or other systems, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. as a result our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected. we may not realize the benefits we expect from the adoption of zero-based budgeting. we recently adopted zero-based budgeting which presents significant organizational challenges. as a result, we may not realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits from the initiative. other events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays or unexpected costs, may also adversely impact our ability to realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits, or cause us not to realize the anticipated cost savings or other benefits on the expected timetable. if we are unable to realize the anticipated cost savings, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. in addition, the initiatives may not advance our strategy as expected. finally, the complexity of the implementation will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must successfully execute the administrative and operational 6 changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of the initiatives. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from other business issues, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. any failure to implement our cost reduction, organizational design or other initiatives in accordance with our plans could adversely affect our business or financial results. our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, soybean oil, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, drought and other weather conditions (including the potential effects of climate change) or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. our hedged price could exceed the spot price on the date of purchase, resulting in an unfavorable impact on both gross margin and net earnings. cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fueled by natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. a shortage in the labor pool, failure to successfully negotiate collectively bargained agreements, or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. we sponsor a number of benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. we also participate in a number of multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. our major pension plans and u.s. retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. many of our employees are covered by collectively-bargained agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collectively-bargained agreements. strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. the terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. multiemployer pension plans could adversely affect our business. we participate in various multiemployer pension plans administered by labor unions representing some of our employees. we make periodic contributions to these plans to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. our required contributions to these funds could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these funds, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. our withdrawal liability for any multiemployer plan would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. in the ordinary course of our renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that maintain these plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in a plan, and in that event, we could face a 7 withdrawal liability. some multiemployer plans in which we participate are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. we operate in the highly competitive food industry. we face competition across our product lines, including ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. most of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products or in effectively assessing, changing and setting proper pricing. we may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of one of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 21% of consolidated net sales during 2015 , comprised principally of sales within the united states. at january 2, 2016 , approximately 18% of our consolidated receivables balance and 27% of our u.s. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates. no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2015 . during 2015 , our top five customers, collectively, including wal-mart, accounted for approximately 34% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 47% of u.s. net sales. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and retailers become larger, our large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased promotional programs funded by their suppliers and more favorable terms. if we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. our results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands. we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers, kellogg and third parties increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about kellogg, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our brands and reputation, regardless of the information's accuracy. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. brand recognition can also be impacted by the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and marketing programs, as well as our use of social media. if we do not maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our results could be negatively impacted. tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to taxes in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions where the company's subsidiaries are organized. due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various foreign jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. the future effective tax rate could be effected by changes in mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in valuation of deferred tax asset and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation which includes possible u.s. tax reform and contemplated changes in other countries of long-standing tax principles if finalized and adopted could have a material impact on our income tax expense and deferred tax balances. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service and other taxing authorities with respect to taxes inside and outside of the u.s. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. there can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. 8 the cash we generate outside the u.s. is principally to be used to fund our international development. if the funds generated by our u.s. business are not sufficient to meet our need for cash in the u.s., we may need to repatriate a portion of our future international earnings to the u.s. such international earnings would be subject to u.s. tax which could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase. we also need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax laws and regulations. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active, or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. if our food products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. a widespread product recall or market withdrawal could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is meritless, does not prevail or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our company and our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. we could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. unanticipated business disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, contract manufacturer locations, distribution networks and information systems that support our ability to provide our products to our customers consistently. our ability to make, move and sell products globally is critical to our success. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as weather (including any potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, fires or explosions, terrorism, political unrest, health pandemics or strikes, could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers' or contract manufacturers' operations. if we do not effectively respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products to our customers. if that occurs, we may lose our customers' confidence, and long-term consumer demand for our products could decline. these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. evolving tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, labeling, trade, food quality and safety and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. our activities or products, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities outside of the united states, international accords and treaties and others, including voluntary regulation by other bodies. in addition, legal and regulatory systems in emerging and developing markets may be less developed, and less certain. these laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products are subject to governmental regulation that impose additional regulatory requirements. those regulations control such matters as food quality and safety, ingredients, advertising, product or production requirements, labeling, import or export of our products or ingredients, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety, the environment, and restrictions on the use of government programs, such as supplemental nutritional assistance program, to purchase certain of our products. we are also 9 regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax, anticorruption standards, advertising and claims, and environmental matters. the need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax, environmental, food quality and safety, labeling or other laws or regulations, or new, evolving or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, termination of necessary licenses or permits, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. even if regulatory review does not result in these types of determinations, it could potentially create negative publicity or perceptions which could harm our business or reputation. our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure and currency restrictions which could negatively impact our operating results. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso, venezuelan bolivar fuerte and russian ruble. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. consequently, changes in the value of the u.s. dollar may unpredictably and negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. if we pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. with respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, consummate a transaction on terms that are favorable to us, or achieve expected returns, expected synergies and other benefits as a result of integration challenges, or may not achieve those objectives on a timely basis. future acquisitions of foreign companies or new foreign ventures would subject us to local regulations and could potentially lead to risks related to, among other things, increased exposure to foreign exchange rate changes, government price control, repatriation of profits and liabilities relating to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. with respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our divestiture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business. there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending our self in civil, criminal or regulatory actions, including under general, commercial, employment, environmental, food quality and safety, anti-trust and trade, advertising and claims, and environmental laws and regulations, or in asserting its rights under various laws. for example, our marketing or claims could face allegations of false or deceptive advertising or other criticisms which could end up in litigation and result in potential liabilities or costs. in addition, we could incur substantial costs and fees in defending our self or in asserting our rights in these actions or meeting new legal requirements. the costs and other effects of potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against us, and new legal requirements, cannot be determined with certainty and may differ from expectations. our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. trends within the food industry change 10 often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our brands and products. we aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. our postretirement benefit-related costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of postretirement medical and pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of increased usage of medical benefits by retired employees and medical cost inflation, the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension and post-retirement plan assets, potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations, and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension and post-retirement plan assets assumptions. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. the company's accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, particularly those due to the change in the fair value of pension and post-retirement plan assets and interest rates. in addition, funding requirements for our plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns, and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension and post-retirement funding obligations. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders' equity, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, or enter into off-balance sheet financing, which would increase our leverage risks. as of january 2, 2016 , we had total debt of approximately $7.8 billion and total kellogg company equity of $2.1 billion. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: impairing the ability to access global capital markets to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward or if a rating organization announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade; a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both; restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business; requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such as expansion through acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing shares, marketing and other spending and expansion of our product offerings; and causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness or incur new indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. our performance is affected by general economic and political conditions and taxation policies. customer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by recession, financial and credit market disruptions, or other economic downturns in the united states or other nations. our results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic and political conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, political unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which we carry on business. 11 current economic conditions globally may delay or reduce purchases by our customers and consumers. this could result in reductions in sales of our products, reduced acceptance of innovations, and increased price competition. deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower collections on accounts receivable which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. financial institutions may be negatively impacted by economic conditions and may consolidate or cease to do business which could result in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and increased volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of effects from a financial institution credit crisis on our business, which could include impaired credit availability and financial stability of our customers, including our suppliers, co-manufacturers and distributors. a disruption in financial markets may also have an effect on our derivative counterparties and could also impair our banking partners on which we rely for operating cash management. any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. factors which could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: (i) reduced demand for our products; (ii) higher commodity prices; (iii) lower prices for our products or increased marketing as a result of increased competition; and (iv) significant disruptions to our operations as a result of both internal and external events. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. as of january 2, 2016 , the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $7.2 billion, of which $5.0 billion was goodwill and $2.2 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $15.3 billion and total kellogg company equity of $2.1 billion. we must leverage our brand value to compete against retailer brands. in nearly all of our product categories, we face branded and price-based competition. our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and retailer brands change in favor of competitors' products or if consumers perceive this type of change. if consumers prefer retailer brands, then we could lose category share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings, which could have a material effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. we may not achieve our targeted cost savings and efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives. our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. we have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. we increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. for example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. information technology systems are also integral to the reporting of our results of operations. furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between, and storage of personal data of, our personnel, customers, consumers and suppliers depends on information technology. our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, as a result of updating our enterprise platform or due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. moreover, our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks. these events could compromise our confidential 12 information, impede or interrupt our business operations, and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, litigation and reputational damage. furthermore, if a breach or other breakdown results in disclosure of confidential or personal information, we may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm. to date, we have not experienced a material breach of cyber security. while we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other preventive actions to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, they may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. we are subject to risks generally associated with companies that operate globally. we are a global company and generated 37% of our 2015 net sales, and 39% of our 2014 and 2013 net sales outside the united states. we manufacture our products in 20 countries and have operations in more than 180 countries, so we are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, such as ofac trade sanction regulations and anti-boycott regulations, compliance with anti-corruption laws, including u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and u.k. bribery act (ukba), compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple regimes, changes in tax laws, interpretation of tax laws and tax audit outcomes, fluctuations or devaluations in currency values, especially in emerging markets, changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product or repatriate cash from outside the united states, changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies, increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit worthiness of local governments, varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights, greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles, loss of ability to manage our operations in certain markets which could result in the deconsolidation of such businesses, design and implementation of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base, and imposition of more or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, and similar restrictions on our sales or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales. the future results of our venezuelan operations may be adversely affected by many factors, including our ability to take action to mitigate the effect of a further devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar, the foreign currency exchange rate and exchange controls, other actions of the venezuelan government and the general economic conditions in 13 the country, resulting from continued hyper-inflation, continued or increased labor unrest and the deteriorating macroeconomic conditions. in particular, any additional government actions, such as imposition of price restrictions that prohibit the company from pricing its products at acceptable levels, could have a further adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition that could become material in the future. additionally, consumer demand for the company's products in venezuela may decline as a result continued inflationary price increases. these and other factors could negatively impact the company's ability to manage our venezuelan operations and could result in the deconsolidation of our venezuelan business. see note 15 for more information regarding venezuela. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. the slowdown in economic growth or high unemployment in some emerging markets could constrain consumer spending, and declining consumer purchasing power could adversely impact our profitability. continued instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries in the european union or the dynamics associated with the federal and state debt and budget challenges in the united states could adversely affect us. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets. however, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. in many countries outside of the united states, particularly those with emerging economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the fcpa and the ukba, or local anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand and improve their production capacities. our success in emerging markets is critical to our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and regulatory risks, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. adverse changes in the global climate or extreme weather conditions could adversely affect our business or operations climate change is a core business issue for kellogg to ensure the long-term health and viability of the ingredients we use in our products. as set forth in the intergovernmental panel on climate change fifth assessment report, there is continuing scientific evidence, as well as concern from members of the general public, that emissions of greenhouse gases and contributing human activities have caused and will continue to cause significant changes in global temperatures and weather patterns and increase the frequency or severity of weather events, wildfires and flooding. as the pressures from climate change and global population growth lead to increased demand, the food system and global supply chain is becoming increasingly vulnerable to acute shocks, leading to increased prices and volatility, especially in the energy and commodity markets. adverse changes such as these could: unfavorably impact the cost or availability of raw or packaging materials, especially if such events have a negative impact on agricultural productivity or on the supply of water; disrupt our ability, or the ability of our suppliers or contract manufacturers, to manufacture or distribute our products; disrupt the retail operations of our customers; or unfavorably impact the demand for, or the consumer's ability to purchase, our products. foreign, federal, state and local regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed various legislative and regulatory measures relating to climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions and energy policies. in the event that such regulation is enacted, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. lastly, consumers and customers may put an increased priority on purchasing 14 products that are sustainably grown and made, requiring us to incur increased costs for additional transparency, due diligence and reporting. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. we use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. as a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 13 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on our derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related primarily to third-party purchases, intercompany transactions, and when applicable, nonfunctional currency denominated third-party debt. our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, our company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency denominated earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound, mexican peso, australian dollar, canadian dollar, venezuelan bolivar fuerte, and russian ruble, and 47 in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. we assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and may enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements may be established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2015 was $1.2 billion, representing a settlement receivable of $13 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2014 was $764 million, representing a settlement receivable of $23 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities, and mature within 18 months. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement receivable would have become a settlement obligation of $77 million at year-end 2015 and the settlement receivable at year-end 2014 would have become a settlement obligation of $53 million. these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. venezuela is considered a highly inflationary economy. as such, the functional currency for our operations in venezuela is the u.s. dollar, which in turn, requires bolivar denominated monetary assets and liabilities to be remeasured into u.s. dollars using an exchange rate at which such balances could be settled as of the balance sheet date. in addition, revenues and expenses are recorded in u.s. dollars at an appropriate rate on the date of the transaction. gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of the bolivar denominated monetary assets and liabilities are recorded in earnings. during 2015 we have experienced an increase in the amount of time it takes to exchange bolivars for u.s. dollars through the cencoex exchange. given this economic backdrop, and upon review of current u.s. dollar cash needs in our venezuela operations as of the quarter ended july 4, 2015, we concluded that we are no longer able to obtain sufficient u.s. dollars on a timely basis through the cencoex exchange to support our venezuela operations, resulting in a decision to remeasure our venezuela subsidiary's financial statements using the simadi rate. please refer to note 15 for more information regarding our operations in venezuela and our change in foreign exchange rates. as of july 4, 2015, certain non-monetary assets related to our venezuelan subsidiary continued to be remeasured at historical exchange rates. as these assets were utilized by our venezuelan subsidiary during the second half of 2015 they were recognized in the income statement at historical exchange rates resulting in an unfavorable impact. during 2015, we recognized expense related to the utilization of a portion of these non-monetary assets, resulting in an unfavorable impact of approximately $17 million. we expect an additional unfavorable impact of approximately $4 million in 2016 related to the utilization of these remaining non-monetary assets. including these impacts, the total impact of moving from the cencoex official rate to the simadi rate is anticipated to be $173 million, on a pre-tax basis, with $169 million recognized in 2015, or approximately $.42 on a fully-diluted eps basis, plus an additional $4 million expected to be recognized in 2016. in february 2016, the venezuelan government announced a 59% devaluation of the cencoex official rate from 6.3 bolivars to 10.0 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. additionally the sicad exchange rate was eliminated. these changes are not expected to have a material impact on our results as we are currently using the simadi rate to remeasure our venezuelan subsidiary's financial statements. interest rate risk our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. during 2014, we entered into forward starting interest swaps with notional amounts totaling 500 million, as a hedge against interest rate volatility associated with a forecasted issuance of fixed rate debt to be used for general corporate purposes. these swaps were designated as cash flow hedges. during 2015 these forward starting interest swaps were settled and additional forward starting interest rate swaps with a notional amount totaling 600 million were entered into and were designated as cash flow hedges. these forward starting interest rate swaps were settled in march 2015, upon the issuance of fixed rate debt. a resulting aggregate loss of $12 million was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and will be amortized as interest expense over the life 48 of the related fixed rate debt. refer to note 7 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information related to the fixed rate debt issuance. during 2015 we entered into new interest rate swaps with notional amounts totaling approximately $2.0 billion that were designated as fair value hedges of certain u.s. dollar notes. additionally during 2015 we terminated interest rate swaps with notional amounts totaling approximately $4.3 billion which were previously designated as fair value hedges of certain u.s. dollar notes. refer to note 7 within notes to consolidated financial statements. there were no outstanding interest rate swaps as of year-end 2015. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2014 was $3 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $12 million. as there were no interest rate swaps or variable rate debt outstanding at year-end 2015, changes in interest rates would have no impact to annual interest expense. assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $36 million at year-end 2014. price risk our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, potato flakes, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, cartonboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. we have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2015 was $470 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $43 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2014 was $492 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $56 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $27 million at year-end 2015, and $31 million at year-end 2014, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. in addition to the commodity derivative instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure associated with future purchases of certain raw materials, including rice, sugar, cartonboard, and corrugated boxes. it should be noted the exclusion of these contracts from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of our company. reciprocal collateralization agreements in some instances we have reciprocal collateralization agreements with counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a net liability position to us or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. as of january 2, 2016 and january 3, 2015, we had no collateral posting requirements related to reciprocal collateralization agreements. as of january 2, 2016 and january 3, 2015, we posted $51 million and $50 million, respectively, in margin deposits for exchange-traded commodity derivative instruments, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet. 49risk factors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. we may not realize the benefits that we expect from our global efficiency and effectiveness program (project k). in november 2013, the company announced a global efficiency and effectiveness program (project k). the successful implementation of project k presents significant organizational design and infrastructure challenges and in many cases will require successful negotiations with third parties, including labor organizations, suppliers, 7 business partners, and other stakeholders. in addition, the project may not advance our business strategy as expected. as a result, we may not be able to implement project k as planned, including the successful exit of our direct store delivery network and transitioning that business to a warehouse model. events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. if we are unable to realize the anticipated savings of the program, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. any failure to implement project k in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the complexity of project k will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must successfully implement administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of project k. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial or other systems, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. as a result our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected. we may not realize the benefits we expect from the adoption of zero-based budgeting. we adopted zero-based budgeting which presents significant organizational challenges. as a result, we may not realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits from the initiative. other events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays or unexpected costs, may also adversely impact our ability to realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits, or cause us not to realize the anticipated cost savings or other benefits on the expected timetable. if we are unable to realize the anticipated cost savings, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. in addition, the initiatives may not advance our strategy as expected. finally, the complexity of the implementation will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must successfully execute the administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of the initiatives. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from other business issues, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. any failure to implement our cost reduction, organizational design or other initiatives in accordance with our plans could adversely affect our business or financial results. we may not realize the benefits we expect from revenue growth management. we are establishing a more formal revenue growth management discipline to help us realize price in a more effective way. this approach addresses price strategy, price-pack architecture, promotion strategy, mix management, and trade strategies. revenue growth management will involve changes to the way we do business and may not always be accepted by our customers or consumers causing us not to realize the anticipated benefits. in addition, the complexity of the implementation will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must successfully execute the administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of the initiative. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from other business issues and have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. any failure to implement revenue growth management in accordance with our plans could adversely affect our business or financial condition. our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, potato flakes, vegetable oils, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, drought and other weather conditions (including the potential effects of climate change) or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. our hedged price could exceed the spot price on the date of purchase, resulting in an unfavorable impact on both gross margin and net earnings. cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fueled by electricity, natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage 8 exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. a shortage in the labor pool, failure to successfully negotiate collectively bargained agreements, or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. we sponsor a number of benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. we also participate in a number of multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. our major pension plans and u.s. retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. many of our employees are covered by collectively-bargained agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collectively-bargained agreements. strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. the terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. multiemployer pension plans could adversely affect our business. we participate in various multiemployer pension plans administered by labor unions representing some of our employees. we make periodic contributions to these plans to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. our required contributions to these funds could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these funds, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. our withdrawal liability for any multiemployer plan would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. in the ordinary course of our renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that maintain these plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in a plan, and in that event, we could face a withdrawal liability. some multiemployer plans in which we participate are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. we operate in the highly competitive food industry. we face competition across our product lines, including ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. most of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in some cases, our competitors may be able to respond to changing business and economic conditions more quickly than us. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products or in effectively assessing, changing and setting proper pricing. the changing retail environment could negatively impact our sales and profits. our businesses are largely concentrated in the traditional retail grocery trade. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 20% of consolidated net sales during 2016 , comprised principally of sales within the united states. at december 31, 2016 , approximately 12% of our consolidated receivables balance and 18% of our u.s. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates. no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2016 . during 2016 , our top five customers, collectively, including wal-mart, accounted for approximately 34% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 47% of u.s. net sales. there can be no assurances that our largest customers will continue to 9 purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and retailers become larger, our large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased promotional programs funded by their suppliers and more favorable terms. if we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. additionally, alternative retails channels, such as internet-based retailers, discount and dollar stores, drug stores and club stores, have become more prevalent. if we are not successful in expanding sales in alternative retail channels, our business or financial results may be negatively impacted. also, if these alternative retail channels like internet-based retailers were to take significant share away from traditional retailers that could have a flow over effect on our business and our financial results could be negatively impacted. our results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands. we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, the products becoming unavailable to consumers, or the failure to meet the nutrition expectations of our products or particular ingredients in our products (whether or not valid), including whether certain of our products are perceived to contribute to obesity. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers, kellogg and third parties increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about kellogg, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our brands and reputation, regardless of the information's accuracy. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. brand recognition can also be impacted by the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and marketing programs, as well as our use of social media. if we do not maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our results could be negatively impacted. tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to taxes in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions where the company's subsidiaries are organized. due to economic and political conditions (including shifts in the geopolitical landscape), tax rates in various foreign jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. the future effective tax rate could be effected by changes in mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in valuation of deferred tax asset and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation which includes possible u.s. tax reform and contemplated changes in other countries of long-standing tax principles if finalized and adopted could have a material impact on our income tax expense and deferred tax balances. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service and other taxing authorities with respect to taxes inside and outside of the u.s. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. there can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. the cash we generate outside the u.s. is principally to be used to fund our international development. if the funds generated by our u.s. business are not sufficient to meet our need for cash in the u.s., we may need to repatriate a portion of our future international earnings to the u.s. such international earnings would be subject to u.s. tax which could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase. we also need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax laws and regulations. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active, or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. 10 if our food products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. a widespread product recall or market withdrawal could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is meritless, does not prevail or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our company and our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. we could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall consumption of products in this category. adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. unanticipated business disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, contract manufacturer locations, distribution networks and information systems that support our ability to provide our products to our customers consistently. our ability to make, move and sell products globally is critical to our success. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as product or raw material scarcity, weather (including any potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, fires or explosions, terrorism, political unrest, health pandemics or strikes, could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers' or contract manufacturers' operations. if we do not effectively respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products to our customers. if that occurs, we may lose our customers' confidence, and long-term consumer demand for our products could decline. these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. evolving tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, labeling, trade, food quality and safety and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. our activities or products, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities outside of the united states, international accords and treaties and others, including voluntary regulation by other bodies. in addition, legal and regulatory systems in emerging and developing markets may be less developed, and less certain. these laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products are subject to governmental regulation that impose additional regulatory requirements. those regulations control such matters as food quality and safety, ingredients, advertising, product or production requirements, labeling, import or export of our products or ingredients, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety, the environment, and restrictions on the use of government programs, such as supplemental nutritional assistance program, to purchase certain of our products. the marketing of food products has come under increased regulatory scrutiny in recent years, and the food industry has been subject to an increasing number of proceedings and claims relating to alleged false or deceptive marketing under federal, state and foreign laws or regulations. we are also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax, anticorruption standards, advertising and claims, and environmental matters. the need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax, environmental, food quality and safety, labeling or other laws or regulations, or new, evolving or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing 11 laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. changes in legal or regulatory requirements (such as new food safety requirements and revised nutrition facts labeling and serving size regulations), or evolving interpretations of existing legal or regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations that could adversely affect our business or financial results. if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, termination of necessary licenses or permits, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. even if regulatory review does not result in these types of determinations, it could potentially create negative publicity or perceptions which could harm our business or reputation. further, modifications to international trade policy, including changes to or repeal of the north american free trade agreement, could have a negative impact on us or the industries we serve, including as a result of related uncertainty, and could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure and currency restrictions which could negatively impact our operating results. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso, and russian ruble. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates and face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. for example, the announcement of brexit has caused, and may continue to cause, significant volatility in currency exchange rate fluctuations. consequently, changes in the value of the u.s. dollar may unpredictably and negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. if we pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. with respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, consummate a transaction on terms that are favorable to us, or achieve expected returns, expected synergies and other benefits as a result of integration challenges, or may not achieve those objectives on a timely basis. future acquisitions of foreign companies or new foreign ventures would subject us to local regulations and could potentially lead to risks related to, among other things, increased exposure to foreign exchange rate changes, government price control, repatriation of profits and liabilities relating to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. with respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our divestiture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. for example, at the end of 2016, we acquired ritmo investimentos, controlling shareholder of parati s/a, afical ltda and padua ltda ("parati group"). the company will be integrating the parati group in 2017 and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from this acquisition will depend, in part, on the successful integration of this business. our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business. there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending our self in civil, criminal or regulatory actions, including under general, commercial, employment, environmental, food quality and safety, anti-trust and trade, advertising and claims, and environmental laws and regulations, or in asserting our rights under various laws. for example, our marketing or claims could face allegations of false or deceptive advertising or other criticisms which could end up in litigation and result in potential liabilities or costs. in addition, we could incur substantial costs and fees in defending our self or in asserting our rights in these actions or meeting new legal requirements. the costs and other effects of potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against us, and new legal requirements, cannot be determined with certainty and may differ from expectations. 12 our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our brands and products. we aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. in addition, if sales generated by new products cause a decline in sales of the company's existing products, the company's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. our postretirement benefit-related costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of postretirement medical and pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of increased usage of medical benefits by retired employees and medical cost inflation, the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension and post-retirement plan assets, potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations, and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension and post-retirement plan assets assumptions. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. the company's accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, particularly those due to the change in the fair value of pension and post-retirement plan assets and interest rates. in addition, funding requirements for our plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns, and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension and post-retirement funding obligations. we use available borrowings under the credit facilities and other available debt financing for cash to operate our business, which subjects us to market and counter-party risk, some of which is beyond our control. in addition to cash we generate from our business, our principal existing sources of cash are borrowings available under our credit facilities and other available debt financing. if our access to such financing was unavailable or reduced, or if such financing were to become significantly more expensive for any reason, we may not be able to fund daily operations, which would cause material harm to our business or could affect our ability to operate our business as a going concern. in addition, if certain of our lenders experience difficulties that render them unable to fund future draws on the facilities, we may not be able to access all or a portion of these funds, which could have similar adverse consequences. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders' equity, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, or enter into off-balance sheet financing, which would increase our leverage risks. as of december 31, 2016 , we had total debt of approximately $7.8 billion and total kellogg company equity of $1.9 billion. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: impairing the ability to access global capital markets to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward or if a rating organization announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade; a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both; 13 restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business; requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such as expansion through acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing shares, marketing and other spending and expansion of our product offerings; and causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness or incur new indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. our performance is affected by general economic and political conditions and taxation policies. customer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by recession, financial and credit market disruptions, or other economic downturns in the united states or other nations. our results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic and political conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, political unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which we carry on business. current economic conditions globally may delay or reduce purchases by our customers and consumers. this could result in reductions in sales of our products, reduced acceptance of innovations, and increased price competition. deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower collections on accounts receivable which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. financial institutions may be negatively impacted by economic conditions and may consolidate or cease to do business which could result in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and increased volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of effects from a financial institution credit crisis on our business, which could include impaired credit availability and financial stability of our customers, including our suppliers, co-manufacturers and distributors. a disruption in financial markets may also have an effect on our derivative counterparties and could also impair our banking partners on which we rely for operating cash management. any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business we depend on the skills and continued service of key personnel, including our experienced management team. in addition, our ability to achieve our strategic and operating goals depends on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train and retain qualified individuals. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, recruit, train and retain other talented personnel. any such loss or failure may adversely affect our business or financial results. in addition, activities related to identifying, recruiting, hiring and integrating qualified individuals may require significant time and expense. we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, each of which may adversely affect our business and financial results an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. factors which could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: (i) reduced demand for our products; (ii) higher commodity prices; (iii) lower prices for our products or increased marketing as a result of increased competition; and (iv) significant disruptions to our operations as a result of both internal and external events. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. 14 as of december 31, 2016 , the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $7.5 billion, of which $5.2 billion was goodwill and $2.3 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $15.1 billion and total kellogg company equity of $1.9 billion. competition against retailer brands could negatively impact our business. in nearly all of our product categories, we face branded and price-based competition. our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and retailer brands change in favor of competitors' products or if consumers perceive this type of change. if consumers prefer retailer brands, then we could lose category share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings, which could have a material effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. we may not achieve our targeted cost savings and efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives. our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. we have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. we increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. for example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. information technology systems are also integral to the reporting of our results of operations. furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between, and storage of personal data of, our personnel, customers, consumers and suppliers depends on information technology. our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, as a result of updating our enterprise platform or due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, network or hardware failures, malicious or disruptive software, unintentional or malicious actions of employees or contractors, cyberattacks by common hackers, criminal groups or nation-state organizations or social-activist (hacktivist) organizations, geopolitical events, natural disasters, failures or impairments of telecommunications networks, or other catastrophic events. moreover, our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks. these events could compromise our confidential information, impede or interrupt our business operations, and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, litigation and reputational damage. furthermore, if a breach or other breakdown results in disclosure of confidential or personal information, we may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm. to date, we have not experienced a material breach of cyber security. while we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other preventive actions to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, they may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. the company offers promotions, rebates, customer loyalty and other programs through which it may receive personal information, and it or its vendors could experience cyber-attacks, privacy breaches, data breaches or other incidents that result in unauthorized disclosure of consumer, customer, employee or company information. if the company suffers a loss as a result of a breach or other breakdown in its technology, including such cyber-attack, privacy breaches, data breaches or other incident involving one of the company's vendors, that result in unauthorized disclosure or significant unavailability of business, financial, personal or stakeholder information, the company may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm and may be exposed to legal liability, which may adversely affect the company's results of operations and/or financial condition. in addition, if the company's suppliers or customers experience such a breach or unauthorized disclosure or system failure, their businesses could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which may result in a disruption in the company's supply chain or reduced customer orders, which would adversely affect the company's business operations. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our 15 business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. in addition, if, in the course of developing new products or improving the quality of existing products, we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, such finding could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations and may limit our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. we are subject to risks generally associated with companies that operate globally. we are a global company and generated 35% of our 2016 net sales, 37% of 2015 and 39% of our 2014 net sales outside the united states. we manufacture our products in 21 countries and have operations in more than 180 countries, so we are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, such as ofac trade sanction regulations and anti-boycott regulations, compliance with anti-corruption laws, including u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and u.k. bribery act (ukba), compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple regimes, changes in tax laws, interpretation of tax laws and tax audit outcomes, fluctuations or devaluations in currency values, especially in emerging markets, changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product or repatriate cash from outside the united states, changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies, increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit worthiness of local governments, varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights, greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles, loss of ability to manage our operations in certain markets which could result in the deconsolidation of such businesses, design and implementation of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base, imposition of more or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, and similar restrictions on our sales or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales, and changes in trade policies and trade relations. please refer to note 16 for more information regarding our operations in venezuela, including the impact on our operations from currency restrictions and our decision to deconsolidate our venezuelan operations effective december 31, 2016. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. the slowdown in economic growth or high unemployment in some emerging markets could constrain consumer spending, and declining consumer purchasing power could adversely impact our profitability. continued instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries in the european union or the dynamics associated with the federal and state debt and budget challenges in the united states could adversely affect us. all of these factors could result in increased costs 16 or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. there may be uncertainty as a result of key global events during 2016. for example, the continuing uncertainty arising from the brexit referendum in the united kingdom as well as ongoing terrorist activity, may adversely impact global stock markets (including the new york stock market on which our common shares are traded) and general global economic conditions. all of these factors are outside of our control, but may nonetheless cause us to adjust our strategy in order to compete effectively in global markets. the results of the united kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the european union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. in june 2016, a majority of voters in the united kingdom elected to withdraw from the european union in a national referendum. the referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years after the government of the united kingdom formally initiates a withdrawal process. nevertheless, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the united kingdom determines which european union laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal. the referendum has also given rise to calls for the governments of other european union member states to consider withdrawal. the economic conditions and outlook in the united kingdom, the european union and elsewhere could be further adversely affected by (i) the uncertainty concerning the timing and terms of the exit, (ii) new or modified trading arrangements between the united kingdom and other countries, (iii) the risk that one or more other european union countries could come under increasing pressure to leave the european union, or (iv) the risk that the euro as the single currency of the eurozone could cease to exist. any of these developments, or the perception that any of these developments are likely to occur, could affect economic growth or business activity in the united kingdom or the european union, and could result in the relocation of businesses, cause business interruptions, lead to economic recession or depression, and impact the stability of the financial markets, availability of credit, currency exchange rates, interest rates, financial institutions, and political, financial and monetary systems. any of these developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, could depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets. however, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. in many countries outside of the united states, particularly those with emerging economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the fcpa and the ukba, or local anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand and improve their production capacities. our success in emerging markets is critical to our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and regulatory risks, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. adverse changes in the global climate or extreme weather conditions could adversely affect our business or operations climate change is a core business issue for kellogg to ensure the long-term health and viability of the ingredients we use in our products. as set forth in the intergovernmental panel on climate change fifth assessment report, there is continuing scientific evidence, as well as concern from members of the general public, that emissions of greenhouse gases and contributing human activities have caused and will continue to cause significant changes in global temperatures and weather patterns and increase the frequency or severity of weather events, wildfires and 17 flooding. as the pressures from climate change and global population growth lead to increased demand, the food system and global supply chain is becoming increasingly vulnerable to acute shocks, leading to increased prices and volatility, especially in the energy and commodity markets. adverse changes such as these could: unfavorably impact the cost or availability of raw or packaging materials, especially if such events have a negative impact on agricultural productivity or on the supply of water; disrupt our ability, or the ability of our suppliers or contract manufacturers, to manufacture or distribute our products; disrupt the retail operations of our customers; or unfavorably impact the demand for, or the consumer's ability to purchase, our products. foreign, federal, state and local regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed various legislative and regulatory measures relating to climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions and energy policies. in the event that such regulation is enacted, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. lastly, consumers and customers may put an increased priority on purchasing products that are sustainably grown and made, requiring us to incur increased costs for additional transparency, due diligence and reporting. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. we use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. as a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 14 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on our derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related primarily to third-party purchases, intercompany transactions, and when applicable, nonfunctional currency denominated third-party debt. our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, our company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency denominated earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound, mexican peso, australian dollar, canadian dollar and russian ruble, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. we assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and may enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements may be established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2016 was $1.4 billion, representing a settlement receivable of $16 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2015 was $1.2 billion, representing a settlement receivable of $13 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities, and mature within 18 months. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement receivable would have become a settlement obligation of $46 million at year-end 2016 and the settlement receivable at year-end 2015 would have become a settlement obligation of $77 million. these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy as of the beginning of our 2010 fiscal year. since that time, the functional currency for our operations in venezuela has been the u.s. dollar, which in turn, required bolivar denominated monetary assets and liabilities to be remeasured into u.s. dollars using an exchange rate at which such balances could be settled as of the balance sheet date. in addition, revenues and expenses have been recorded in u.s. dollars at an appropriate rate on the date of the transaction. gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of the bolivar denominated monetary assets and liabilities were recorded in earnings. as of december 31, 2016 , we deconsolidated and changed to the cost method of accounting for our venezuelan subsidiary. beginning in fiscal year 2017, we will no longer include the financial statements of our venezuelan subsidiary within our consolidated financial statements. please refer to note 16 for more information regarding our operations in venezuela. interest rate risk our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. during 2016 and 2015 , we entered into interest rate swaps, and in some instances terminated interest rate swaps, in connection with certain u.s. dollar and euro notes. refer to note 8 within notes to consolidated financial statements. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2016 was $2.2 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $64 million. there were no outstanding interest rate swaps as of year-end 2015 . assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $17 million at year-end 2016 . as there were no interest rate swaps or variable rate debt outstanding at year-end 2015 , changes in interest rates would have no impact to annual interest expense. 54 price risk our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, potato flakes, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, cartonboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. we have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2016 was $437 million, representing a settlement receivable of approximately $6 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2015 was $470 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $43 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement receivable would become a settlement obligation of approximately $20 million at year-end 2016 , and the settlement obligation would increase approximately $27 million at year-end 2015 , generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. in addition to the commodity derivative instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure associated with future purchases of certain raw materials, including rice, sugar, cartonboard, and corrugated boxes. it should be noted the exclusion of these contracts from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of our company. reciprocal collateralization agreements in some instances we have reciprocal collateralization agreements with counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a net liability position to us or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. as of december 31, 2016 we had posted collateral of $41 million in the form of cash, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet. as of january 2, 2016 , we had no collateral posting requirements related to reciprocal collateralization agreements. as of december 31, 2016 and january 2, 2016 , we posted $7 million and $51 million, respectively, in margin deposits for exchange-traded commodity derivative instruments, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet. 55risk factors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. 8 we may not realize the benefits that we expect from our global efficiency and effectiveness program (project k). in november 2013, the company announced a global efficiency and effectiveness program (project k). the successful implementation of project k presents significant organizational design and infrastructure challenges and in many cases will require successful negotiations with third parties, including labor organizations, suppliers, business partners, and other stakeholders. in addition, the project may not advance our business strategy as expected. while we are four years into the implementation of project k and many of the initiatives under the program have been successfully implemented or are nearing completion, we may not be able to implement project k as planned, including the successful exit of our direct store delivery network and transitioning that business to a warehouse model. events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. if we are unable to realize the anticipated savings of the program, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. any failure to implement project k in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the complexity of project k has required, and will continue to require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must successfully implement administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of project k. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial or other systems, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. as a result our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected. we may not realize the benefits we expect from the adoption of zero-based budgeting. we adopted zero-based budgeting which presents significant organizational challenges. as a result, we may not realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits from the initiative. other events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays or unexpected costs, may also adversely impact our ability to realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits, or cause us not to realize the anticipated cost savings or other benefits on the expected timetable. if we are unable to realize the anticipated cost savings, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. in addition, the initiatives may not advance our strategy as expected. finally, the complexity of the implementation will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must successfully execute the administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of the initiatives. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from other business issues, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. any failure to implement our cost reduction, organizational design or other initiatives in accordance with our plans could adversely affect our business or financial results. we may not realize the benefits we expect from revenue growth management. we are establishing a more formal revenue growth management discipline to help us realize price in a more effective way. this approach addresses price strategy, price-pack architecture, promotion strategy, mix management, and trade strategies. revenue growth management will involve changes to the way we do business and may not always be accepted by our customers or consumers causing us not to realize the anticipated benefits. in addition, the complexity of the implementation will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must successfully execute the administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of the initiative. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from other business issues and have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. any failure to implement revenue growth management in accordance with our plans could adversely affect our business or financial condition. our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, potato flakes, vegetable oils, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, drought and other weather conditions (including the potential effects of climate change) or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our 9 prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. our hedged price could exceed the spot price on the date of purchase, resulting in an unfavorable impact on both gross margin and net earnings. cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fueled by electricity, natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. a shortage in the labor pool, failure to successfully negotiate collectively bargained agreements, or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. we sponsor a number of benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. we also participate in a number of multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. our major pension plans and u.s. retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. many of our employees are covered by collectively-bargained agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collectively-bargained agreements. strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. the terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. multiemployer pension plans could adversely affect our business. we participate in various multiemployer pension plans administered by labor unions representing some of our employees. we make periodic contributions to these plans to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. our required contributions to these funds could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these funds, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. our withdrawal liability for any multiemployer plan would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. in the ordinary course of our renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that maintain these plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in a plan, and in that event, we could face a withdrawal liability. some multiemployer plans in which we participate are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. we operate in the highly competitive food industry. we face competition across our product lines, including ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. most of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in some cases, our competitors may be able to respond to changing business and economic conditions more quickly than us. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products, anticipating changes in consumer preferences with respect to dietary trends or purchasing behaviors or in effectively assessing, changing and setting proper pricing. 10 the changing retail environment could negatively impact our sales and profits. our businesses are largely concentrated in the traditional retail grocery trade. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 20% of consolidated net sales during 2017 , comprised principally of sales within the united states. at december 30, 2017 , approximately 17% of our consolidated receivables balance and 26% of our u.s. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates. no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2017 . during 2017 , our top five customers, collectively, including wal-mart, accounted for approximately 35% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 49% of u.s. net sales. there can be no assurances that our largest customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and retailers become larger, our large retail customers have sought, and may continue to seek in the future, to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased promotional programs funded by their suppliers and more favorable terms. if we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer or severe adverse impact on the business operations of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. additionally, alternative retail channels, such as internet-based retailers, mobile applications, subscription services, discount and dollar stores, drug stores and club stores, have become more prevalent. if we are not successful in expanding sales in alternative retail channels, our business or financial results may be negatively impacted. in addition, these alternative retail channels may create consumer price deflation, affecting our retail customer relationships and presenting additional challenges to increasing prices in response to commodity or other cost increases. also, if these alternative retail channels, such as internet-based retailers were to take significant share away from traditional retailers that could have a flow over effect on our business and our financial results could be negatively impacted. our results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands. we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, the products becoming unavailable to consumers, or the failure to meet the nutrition expectations of our products or particular ingredients in our products (whether or not valid), including whether certain of our products are perceived to contribute to obesity. in addition, we might fail to anticipate consumer preferences with respect to dietary trends or purchasing behaviors, invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image or achieve the desired efforts of our marketing efforts. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers, kellogg and third parties increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about kellogg, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our brands, reputation and brand loyalty, regardless of the information's accuracy. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. brand recognition and loyalty can also be impacted by the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs and sponsorships, as well as our use of social media. if we do not maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our results could be negatively impacted. the impact of recently enacted tax reform legislation in the u.s. on our business is uncertain. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ). the tax act makes broad and complex changes to the u.s. tax code which impact our year ended 12/30/17, including but not limited to, reducing the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, requiring a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries that may be electively paid over eight years, and accelerating first year expensing of certain capital expenditures. the tax act also introduces new tax laws that may impact our taxable income beginning in 2018 which will include, but not limited to the repeal of the domestic production activity deduction, generally eliminating u.s. federal income taxes on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), a new provision designed to tax currently global intangible low taxed income (gilti), a provision that could limit the amount of deductible interest expense, 11 limitations on the deductibility of certain executive compensation, creating a base erosion anti-abuse tax (beat), and modifying or repealing many deductions and credits. the impact of many provisions of the tax act lack clarity and is subject to interpretation until additional internal revenue service guidance is issued. the ultimate impact of the act may differ from the company's estimates due to changes in the interpretations and assumptions made as well as any forthcoming regulatory guidance. tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to taxes in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions where the company's subsidiaries are organized. due to economic and political conditions (including shifts in the geopolitical landscape), tax rates in the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions have been and may be subject to significant change. the future effective tax rate could be effected by changes in mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in valuation of deferred tax asset and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation which includes recently enacted u.s. tax reform and contemplated changes in other countries of long-standing tax principles if finalized and adopted could have a material impact on our income tax expense and deferred tax balances. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service and other taxing authorities with respect to taxes inside and outside of the u.s. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. there can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. the cash we generate outside the u.s. is principally to be used to fund our international development. if the funds generated by our u.s. business are not sufficient to meet our need for cash in the u.s., we may need to repatriate a portion of our future international earnings to the u.s. such international earnings would be subject to u.s. tax which could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase. we also need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax laws and regulations. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active, or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. if our food products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. a widespread product recall or market withdrawal could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is meritless, does not prevail or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our company and our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. we could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall consumption of products in this category. adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. unanticipated business disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, contract manufacturer locations, distribution networks and information systems that support our ability to provide our products to our customers consistently. our ability to make, move and sell 12 products globally is critical to our success. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as product or raw material scarcity, weather (including any potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, fires or explosions, terrorism, political unrest, health pandemics or strikes, could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers' or contract manufacturers' operations. if we do not effectively respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products to our customers. if that occurs, we may lose our customers' confidence, and long-term consumer demand for our products could decline. these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. evolving tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, labeling, trade, food quality and safety and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. our activities or products, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities outside of the united states, international accords and treaties and others, including voluntary regulation by other bodies. in addition, legal and regulatory systems in emerging and developing markets may be less developed, and less certain. these laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. in addition, the enforcement of remedies in certain foreign jurisdictions may be less certain, resulting in varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products are subject to governmental regulation that impose additional regulatory requirements. those regulations control such matters as food quality and safety, ingredients, advertising, product or production requirements, labeling, import or export of our products or ingredients, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety, the environment, and restrictions on the use of government programs, such as supplemental nutritional assistance program, to purchase certain of our products. the marketing of food products has come under increased regulatory scrutiny in recent years, and the food industry has been subject to an increasing number of proceedings and claims relating to alleged false or deceptive marketing under federal, state and foreign laws or regulations. we are also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax, anticorruption standards, advertising and claims, and environmental matters. the need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax, environmental, food quality and safety, labeling or other laws or regulations, or new, evolving or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. governmental and administrative bodies within the u.s. are considering a variety of trade and other regulatory forms. changes in legal or regulatory requirements (such as new food safety requirements and revised nutrition facts labeling and serving size regulations), or evolving interpretations of existing legal or regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations that could adversely affect our business or financial results. if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, termination of necessary licenses or permits, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. even if regulatory review does not result in these types of determinations, it could potentially create negative publicity or perceptions which could harm our business or reputation. further, modifications to international trade policy, including changes to or repeal of the north american free trade agreement or the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas or trade barriers on key commodities, could have a negative impact on us or the industries we serve, including as a result of related uncertainty, and could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure and currency restrictions which could negatively impact our operating results. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso, brazilian real, nigerian naira, and russian ruble. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates and face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. for example, the announcement of brexit has caused, and may continue to cause, significant volatility in currency exchange rate fluctuations. consequently, changes in the value of the u.s. dollar may unpredictably and negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. if we pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. with respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, consummate a transaction on terms that are favorable to us, or achieve expected returns, expected synergies and other benefits as a result of integration challenges, or may not achieve those objectives on a timely basis. future acquisitions of foreign companies or new foreign ventures would subject us to local regulations and could potentially lead to risks related to, among other things, increased exposure to foreign exchange rate changes, government price control, repatriation of profits and liabilities relating to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. with respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our divestiture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business. there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending our self in civil, criminal or regulatory actions, including under general, commercial, employment, environmental, food quality and safety, anti-trust and trade, advertising and claims, and environmental laws and regulations, or in asserting our rights under various laws. for example, our marketing or claims could face allegations of false or deceptive advertising or other criticisms which could end up in litigation and result in potential liabilities or costs. in addition, we could incur substantial costs and fees in defending our self or in asserting our rights in these actions or meeting new legal requirements. the costs and other effects of potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against us, and new legal requirements, cannot be determined with certainty and may differ from expectations. our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced loyalty demand and price reductions for our brands and products. we aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. in addition, if sales generated by new products cause a decline in sales of the company's existing products, the company's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will 14 depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. our postretirement benefit-related costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of postretirement medical and pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of increased usage of medical benefits by retired employees and medical cost inflation, the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension and post-retirement plan assets, potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations, and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension and post-retirement plan assets assumptions. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. the company's accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, particularly those due to the change in the fair value of pension and post-retirement plan assets and interest rates. in addition, funding requirements for our plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns, and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension and post-retirement funding obligations. we use available borrowings under the credit facilities and other available debt financing for cash to operate our business, which subjects us to market and counter-party risk, some of which is beyond our control. in addition to cash we generate from our business, our principal existing sources of cash are borrowings available under our credit facilities and other available debt financing. if our access to such financing was unavailable or reduced, or if such financing were to become significantly more expensive for any reason, we may not be able to fund daily operations, which would cause material harm to our business or could affect our ability to operate our business as a going concern. in addition, if certain of our lenders experience difficulties that render them unable to fund future draws on the facilities, we may not be able to access all or a portion of these funds, which could have similar adverse consequences. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders' equity, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, or enter into off-balance sheet financing, which would increase our leverage risks. as of december 30, 2017 , we had total debt of approximately $8.6 billion and total kellogg company equity of $2.2 billion. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: impairing the ability to access global capital markets to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward or if a rating organization announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade; a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both; restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business; requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such as expansion through acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing shares, marketing and other spending and expansion of our product offerings; and causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness or incur new indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. 15 our performance is affected by general economic and political conditions and taxation policies. customer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by recession, financial and credit market disruptions, or other economic downturns in the united states or other nations. our results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic and political conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, political unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which we carry on business. current economic conditions globally may delay or reduce purchases by our customers and consumers. this could result in reductions in sales of our products, reduced acceptance of innovations, and increased price competition. deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower collections on accounts receivable which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. financial institutions may be negatively impacted by economic conditions and may consolidate or cease to do business which could result in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and increased volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of effects from a financial institution credit crisis on our business, which could include impaired credit availability and financial stability of our customers, including our suppliers, co-manufacturers and distributors. a disruption in financial markets may also have an effect on our derivative counterparties and could also impair our banking partners on which we rely for operating cash management. any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business we depend on the skills and continued service of key personnel, including our experienced management team. in addition, our ability to achieve our strategic and operating goals depends on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train and retain qualified individuals. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, recruit, train and retain other talented personnel. any such loss or failure may adversely affect our business or financial results. in addition, activities related to identifying, recruiting, hiring and integrating qualified individuals may require significant time and expense. we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, each of which may adversely affect our business and financial results an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. factors which could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: (i) reduced demand for our products; (ii) higher commodity prices; (iii) lower prices for our products or increased marketing as a result of increased competition; and (iv) significant disruptions to our operations as a result of both internal and external events. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. as of december 30, 2017 , the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $8.1 billion, of which $5.5 billion was goodwill and $2.6 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $16.4 billion and total kellogg company equity of $2.2 billion. competition against retailer brands could negatively impact our business. in nearly all of our product categories, we face branded and price-based competition. our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and retailer brands change in favor of competitors' products or if consumers perceive this type of change. if consumers prefer retailer brands, then we could lose category share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings, which could have a material effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. 16 we may not achieve our targeted cost savings and efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives. our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. we have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. we increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. for example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. information technology systems are also integral to the reporting of our results of operations. furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between, and storage of personal data of, our personnel, customers, consumers and suppliers depends on information technology. our information technology systems, and the systems of the parties we communicate and collaborate with, may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, as a result of updating our enterprise platform or due to events beyond our or their control, including, but not limited to, network or hardware failures, malicious or disruptive software, unintentional or malicious actions of employees or contractors, cyberattacks by common hackers, criminal groups or nation-state organizations or social-activist (hacktivist) organizations, geopolitical events, natural disasters, failures or impairments of telecommunications networks, or other catastrophic events. moreover, our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be subjected to computer viruses, malware, ransonware or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks. cyber threats are constantly evolving and this increases the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. these events could compromise our confidential information, impede or interrupt our business operations, and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, litigation and reputational damage. furthermore, if a breach or other breakdown results in disclosure of confidential or personal information, we may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm. to date, we have not experienced a material breach of cyber security. while we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other preventive actions to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, they may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. the company offers promotions, rebates, customer loyalty and other programs through which it may receive personal information, and it or its vendors could experience cyber-attacks, privacy breaches, data breaches or other incidents that result in unauthorized disclosure of consumer, customer, employee or company information. if the company suffers a loss as a result of a breach or other breakdown in its technology, including such cyber-attack, privacy breaches, data breaches or other incident involving one of the company's vendors, that result in unauthorized disclosure or significant unavailability of business, financial, personal or stakeholder information, the company may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm and may be exposed to legal liability, which may adversely affect the company's results of operations and/or financial condition. the misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in violations of data privacy laws, the company may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. the company could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. in addition, if the company's suppliers or customers experience such a breach or unauthorized disclosure or system failure, their businesses could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which may result in a disruption in the company's supply chain or reduced customer orders, which would adversely affect the company's business operations. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. 17 we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. in addition, if, in the course of developing new products or improving the quality of existing products, we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, such finding could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations and may limit our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. we are subject to risks generally associated with companies that operate globally. we are a global company and generated 37% of our 2017 net sales, 35% of 2016 and 37% of our 2015 net sales outside the united states. we manufacture our products in 21 countries and have operations in more than 180 countries, so we are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, such as ofac trade sanction regulations and anti-boycott regulations, compliance with anti-corruption laws, including u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and u.k. bribery act (ukba), compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple regimes, changes in tax laws, interpretation of tax laws and tax audit outcomes, fluctuations or devaluations in currency values, especially in emerging markets, changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product or repatriate cash from outside the united states, changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies, increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit worthiness of local governments, varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights, greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles, loss of ability to manage our operations in certain markets which could result in the deconsolidation of such businesses, design and implementation of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base, imposition of more or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, and similar restrictions on our sales or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales, and changes in trade policies and trade relations. please refer to note 16 for more information regarding our operations in venezuela, including the impact on our operations from currency restrictions and our decision to deconsolidate our venezuelan operations effective december 31, 2016. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. the slowdown in economic growth or high unemployment in some emerging markets could constrain consumer spending, and declining consumer purchasing power could adversely impact our profitability. continued instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries in the european union or the dynamics associated with the federal and state debt and budget challenges in the united states could adversely affect us. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. there may be uncertainty as a result of key global events during 2018. for example, the continuing uncertainty arising from the brexit referendum in the united kingdom as well as ongoing terrorist activity, may adversely impact global stock markets (including the new york stock exchange on which our common shares are traded) and general global economic conditions. all of these factors are outside of our control, but may nonetheless cause us to 18 adjust our strategy in order to compete effectively in global markets. the results of the united kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the european union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. in june 2016, a majority of voters in the united kingdom elected to withdraw from the european union in a national referendum. in february 2017, the british parliament voted in favor of allowing the british government to begin negotiating the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union, and, in march 2017, the british government invoked article 50 of the treaty on european union, which, per the terms of the treaty, formally triggered a two-year negotiation process and puts the united kingdom on a course to withdraw from the european union by the end of march 2019. the terms of withdrawal have not been established and the united kingdom will remain a member of the european union until conclusion of the withdrawal agreement. if no agreement is concluded within two years of formal notification of withdrawal, however, then the united kingdom may leave the european union at such time. accordingly, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the united kingdom determines which european union laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal. the referendum has also given rise to calls for the governments of other european union member states to consider withdrawal. the economic conditions and outlook in the united kingdom, the european union and elsewhere could be further adversely affected by (i) the uncertainty concerning the timing and terms of the exit, (ii) new or modified trading arrangements between the united kingdom and other countries, (iii) the risk that one or more other european union countries could come under increasing pressure to leave the european union, or (iv) the risk that the euro as the single currency of the eurozone could cease to exist. any of these developments, or the perception that any of these developments are likely to occur, could affect economic growth or business activity in the united kingdom or the european union, and could result in the relocation of businesses, cause business interruptions, lead to economic recession or depression, and impact the stability of the financial markets, availability of credit, currency exchange rates, interest rates, financial institutions, and political, financial and monetary systems. any of these developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, could depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets. however, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. in many countries outside of the united states, particularly those with emerging economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the fcpa and the ukba, or local anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand and improve their production capacities. our success in emerging markets is critical to our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and regulatory risks, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. adverse changes in the global climate or extreme weather conditions could adversely affect our business or operations climate change is a core business issue for kellogg to ensure the long-term health and viability of the ingredients we use in our products. as set forth in the intergovernmental panel on climate change fifth assessment report, there is continuing scientific evidence, as well as concern from members of the general public, that emissions of greenhouse gases and contributing human activities have caused and will continue to cause significant changes in global temperatures and weather patterns and increase the frequency or severity of weather events, wildfires and flooding. as the pressures from climate change and global population growth lead to increased demand, the food 19 system and global supply chain is becoming increasingly vulnerable to acute shocks, leading to increased prices and volatility, especially in the energy and commodity markets. adverse changes such as these could: unfavorably impact the cost or availability of raw or packaging materials, especially if such events have a negative impact on agricultural productivity or on the supply of water; disrupt our ability, or the ability of our suppliers or contract manufacturers, to manufacture or distribute our products; disrupt the retail operations of our customers; or unfavorably impact the demand for, or the consumer's ability to purchase, our products. foreign, federal, state and local regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed various legislative and regulatory measures relating to climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions and energy policies. in the event that such regulation is enacted, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. lastly, consumers and customers may put an increased priority on purchasing products that are sustainably grown and made, requiring us to incur increased costs for additional transparency, due diligence and reporting. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. we use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. as a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 14 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on our derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related primarily to third-party purchases, intercompany transactions, and when applicable, nonfunctional currency denominated third-party debt. our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, our company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency denominated earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound, mexican peso, australian dollar, canadian dollar, russian ruble, brazilian real and nigerian naira and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. we assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and may enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements may be established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2017 was $2.2 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $4 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2016 was $1.4 billion, representing a settlement receivable of $16 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities, and mature within 18 months. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement obligation would have increased by $71 million at year-end 2017 and the settlement receivable at year-end 2016 would have become a settlement obligation of $46 million. these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. interest rate risk our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. during 2017 and 2016 , we entered into interest rate swaps, and in some instances terminated interest rate swaps, in connection with certain u.s. dollar and euro notes. refer to note 8 within notes to consolidated financial statements. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2017 was $2.3 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $54 million. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2016 was $2.2 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $64 million. assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $27 million and $17 million at year-end 2017 and 2016, respectively. price risk our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, potato flakes, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, cartonboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. we have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2017 was $544 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $1 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2016 was $437 million, representing a settlement receivable of approximately $6 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement obligation would have increased by $41 million at year-end 2017 , and the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $20 million at year-end 2016 , generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. in addition to the commodity derivative instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure associated with future purchases of certain raw materials, including rice, 59 sugar, cartonboard, and corrugated boxes. it should be noted the exclusion of these contracts from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of our company. reciprocal collateralization agreements in some instances we have reciprocal collateralization agreements with counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a net liability position to us or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. as of december 30, 2017 and december 31, 2016 , we had posted collateral of $20 million and $41 million, respectively, in the form of cash, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet. as of december 30, 2017 and december 31, 2016 , we posted $17 million and $7 million, respectively, in margin deposits for exchange-traded commodity derivative instruments, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet. 60risk factors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. if we pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. with respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, consummate a transaction on terms that are favorable to us, or achieve expected returns, expected synergies and other benefits as a result of integration challenges, or may not achieve those objectives on a timely basis. future acquisitions of foreign companies or new foreign ventures would subject us to local laws and regulations and could potentially lead to risks related to, among other things, increased exposure to foreign exchange rate changes, government price control, repatriation of profits and liabilities relating to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. with respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our divestiture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 8 the proposed divestiture of our cookies and fruit snacks businesses is subject to various risks and uncertainties, and may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all. on november 12, 2018, we announced our intention to explore a sale of our cookies business (including the keebler , famous amos , mother's and murray brands), fruit snacks business (including the stretch island brand), and our pie crust and ice cream cone businesses. there can be no assurance of the terms, timing or structure of any transaction involving such businesses, whether we will be able to identify buyers for the businesses on favorable terms or at all, or whether any such transaction will take place at all. in addition, any such transaction is subject to risks and uncertainties, including unanticipated developments, regulatory approvals or clearances and uncertainty in the financial markets, that could delay or prevent the completion of any such transaction. the proposed divestiture of our cookies and fruit snacks businesses may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits. executing the proposed divestiture of our cookies, fruit snacks, pie crust and ice cream cone businesses will require us to incur costs and will require the time and attention of our senior management and key employees, which could distract them from operating our business, disrupt operations, and result in the loss of business opportunities, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may also experience increased difficulty in attracting, retaining and motivating key employees during the pendency of the divestiture and following its completion, which could harm our business. even if the proposed divestiture is completed, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the divestiture and the divestiture may in fact adversely affect our business. we may not realize the benefits that we expect from our global efficiency and effectiveness program (project k). in november 2013, the company announced a global efficiency and effectiveness program (project k). while we are in the final year of project k and many of the initiatives under the program have been successfully implemented or are nearing completion, we may not be able to conclude project k as planned. events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing the remaining anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. any failure to conclude project k in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not realize the benefits we expect from revenue growth management. we are utilizing formal revenue growth management practices to help us realize price in a more effective way. this approach addresses price strategy, price-pack architecture, promotion strategy, mix management, and trade strategies. revenue growth management involves changes to the way we do business and may not always be accepted by our customers, consumers or third party providers causing us not to realize the anticipated benefits. in addition, the complexity of the execution requires a substantial amount of management and operational resources. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from other business issues and have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. any failure to execute revenue growth management in accordance with our plans could adversely affect our business or financial condition. our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, potato flakes, vegetable oils, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy, regulation, and/or shutdown, drought and other weather conditions (including the potential effects of climate change) or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. our hedged price could exceed the spot price on the date of purchase, resulting in an unfavorable impact on both gross margin and net earnings. cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fueled by electricity, natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the 9 distribution of our products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy, regulation and/or shutdown, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. our results may be adversely affected by increases in transportation costs and reduced availability of or increases in the price of oil or other fuels. we rely on trucking and railroad operators to deliver incoming ingredients to our manufacturing locations and to deliver finished products to our customers. shortages of truck drivers and railroad workers have contributed to increased freight costs, which has had a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. transportation costs are further increasing as a result of high levels of long-haul driver turnover and increased railroad traffic and service issues. additionally, energy and fuel costs can fluctuate dramatically and, at times, have resulted in significant cost increases, particularly for the price of oil and gasoline. an increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. increases in transportation and energy and fuel costs has, and may continue to affect our profitability and may increase the cost of our products, which may reduce consumer demand. a shortage in the labor pool, failure to successfully negotiate collectively bargained agreements, or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. we sponsor a number of benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. we also participate in a number of multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. our major pension plans and u.s. collectively bargained retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. many of our employees are covered by collectively-bargained agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collectively-bargained agreements. strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. the terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. multiemployer pension plans could adversely affect our business. we participate in various multiemployer pension plans administered by labor unions representing some of our employees. we make periodic contributions to these plans to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. our required contributions to these funds could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these funds, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. there is the potential that the sale of our cookies, fruit snacks, pie crust and ice cream cone businesses may result in withdrawal liability under certain multiemployer pension plans and any such withdrawal could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. our withdrawal liability for any multiemployer plan would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. in the ordinary course of our renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that maintain these plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in a plan, and in that event, we could face a withdrawal liability. some multiemployer plans in which we participate are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. 10 we operate in the highly competitive food industry. we face competition across our product lines, including snacks, ready-to-eat cereals and other convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. the principal aspects of our business where we face competition include brand recognition, taste, nutritional value, price, promotion, innovation, shelf space, navigating the growing e-commerce marketplace, convenient ordering and delivery to the consumer and customer service. most of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and some of our competitors may spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities than we do. our competition with other companies in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in some cases, our competitors may be able to respond to changing business and economic conditions more quickly than us. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products, anticipating changes in consumer preferences with respect to dietary trends or purchasing behaviors or in effectively assessing, changing and setting proper pricing. the changing retail environment and the growing presence of alternative retail channels, could negatively impact our sales and profits. our businesses are largely concentrated in the traditional retail grocery trade. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 19% of consolidated net sales during 2018 , comprised principally of sales within the united states. no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2018 . during 2018 , our top five customers, collectively, including wal-mart, accounted for approximately 33% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 49% of u.s. net sales. there can be no assurances that our largest customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and retailers become larger, our large retail customers have sought, and may continue to seek in the future, to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased promotional programs funded by their suppliers and more favorable terms. if we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer or severe adverse impact on the business operations of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. additionally, alternative retail channels, such as internet-based retailers, mobile applications, subscription services, discount and dollar stores, drug stores and club stores, have become more prevalent. this trend away from traditional retail grocery, and towards such channels, is expected to continue in the future. if we are not successful in expanding sales in alternative retail channels, our business or financial results may be negatively impacted. in addition, these alternative retail channels may create consumer price deflation, affecting our retail customer relationships and presenting additional challenges to increasing prices in response to commodity or other cost increases. also, if these alternative retail channels, such as internet-based retailers were to take significant share away from traditional retailers that could have a flow over effect on our business and our financial results could be negatively impacted. 11 our results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands. we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we, or any of our employees, have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, the products becoming unavailable to consumers, or the failure to meet the nutrition expectations of our products or particular ingredients in our products (whether or not valid), including whether certain of our products are perceived to contribute to obesity. in addition, we might fail to anticipate consumer preferences with respect to dietary trends or purchasing behaviors, invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image or achieve the desired efforts of our marketing efforts. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers, kellogg and third parties increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about kellogg, our brands, our products or any of our employees on social or digital media could seriously damage our brands, reputation and brand loyalty, regardless of the information's accuracy. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. brand recognition and loyalty can also be impacted by the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs and sponsorships, as well as our use of social media. if we do not maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our results could be negatively impacted. tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to taxes in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions where the company's subsidiaries are organized. due to economic and political conditions (including shifts in the geopolitical landscape), tax rates in the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions have been and may be subject to significant change. the future effective tax rate could be effected by changes in mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in valuation of deferred tax asset and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation which includes recently enacted u.s. tax reform and contemplated changes in other countries of long-standing tax principles if finalized and adopted could have a material impact on our income tax expense and deferred tax balances. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service and other taxing authorities with respect to taxes inside and outside of the u.s. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. there can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. we also need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax laws and regulations. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active, or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. if our food products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, food borne illnesses, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. a widespread product recall or market withdrawal could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is meritless, does not prevail or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our company and our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. we could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall consumption of 12 products in this category. adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. unanticipated business disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, contract manufacturer locations, warehousing and distribution networks and information systems that support our ability to provide our products to our customers consistently. our ability to make, move and sell products globally is critical to our success. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as product or raw material scarcity, weather (including any potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, fires or explosions, terrorism, political unrest, unrest or government shutdowns, cybersecurity breaches, health pandemics, disruptions in logistics, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, supplier capacity constraints, or strikes, could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers' or contract manufacturers' operations. if we do not effectively respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, technology, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products to our customers. if that occurs, we may lose our customers' confidence, and long-term consumer demand for our products could decline. these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. evolving tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, labeling, trade, food quality and safety and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. our activities or products, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities outside of the united states, international accords and treaties and others, including voluntary regulation by other bodies. legal and regulatory systems can change quickly, as demonstrated by the events of the brexit vote. in addition, legal and regulatory systems in emerging and developing markets may be less developed, and less certain. these laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic, regulatory or social events. in addition, the enforcement of remedies in certain foreign jurisdictions may be less certain, resulting in varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products are subject to governmental regulation that impose additional regulatory requirements. those regulations control such matters as food quality and safety, ingredients, advertising, product or production requirements, labeling, import or export of our products or ingredients, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety, the environment, and restrictions on the use of government programs, such as supplemental nutritional assistance program, to purchase certain of our products. the marketing of food products has come under increased regulatory scrutiny in recent years, and the food industry has been subject to an increasing number of proceedings and claims relating to alleged false or deceptive marketing under federal, state and foreign laws or regulations. we are also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax, anticorruption standards, advertising and claims, and environmental matters. the need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax, environmental, food quality and safety, labeling or other laws or regulations, or new, evolving or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. governmental and administrative bodies within the u.s. are considering a variety of trade and other regulatory reforms. changes in legal or regulatory requirements (such as new food safety requirements and revised nutrition facts labeling and serving size regulations), or evolving interpretations of existing legal or regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations that could adversely affect our business or financial results. if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, termination of necessary licenses or permits, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. even if regulatory review does not result in these types of determinations, it could potentially create negative publicity or perceptions which could harm our business or reputation. further, modifications to international trade policy, including changes to or repeal of the north american free trade agreement, changes in the european union (such as brexit) or the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas or trade barriers on key commodities, 13 could have a negative impact on us or the industries we serve, including as a result of related uncertainty, and could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure and currency restrictions which could negatively impact our operating results. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso, brazilian real, nigerian naira, and russian ruble. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates and face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. for example, the announcement and implementation of brexit has caused, and may continue to cause, significant volatility in currency exchange rate fluctuations. consequently, changes in the value of the u.s. dollar may unpredictably and negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business. there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending our self in civil, criminal or regulatory actions, including under general, commercial, employment, environmental, data privacy or security, intellectual property, food quality and safety, anti-trust and trade, advertising and claims, and environmental laws and regulations, or in asserting our rights under various laws. for example, our marketing or claims could face allegations of false or deceptive advertising or other criticisms which could end up in litigation and result in potential liabilities or costs. in addition, we could incur substantial costs and fees in defending our self or in asserting our rights in these actions or meeting new legal requirements. the costs and other effects of potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against us, and new legal requirements, cannot be determined with certainty and may differ from expectations. our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced loyalty demand and price reductions for our brands and products. we aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. in addition, if sales generated by new products cause a decline in sales of the company's existing products, the company's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. our postretirement benefit-related costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of postretirement medical and pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of increased usage of medical benefits by retired employees and medical cost inflation, an increase in participants enrolled, the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension and post-retirement plan assets, potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations, and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension and post-retirement plan assets assumptions. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. the company's accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, particularly those due to the change in the fair value of pension and post-retirement plan assets and interest rates. in addition, funding requirements for our plans may become more significant. however, 14 the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns, and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension and post-retirement funding obligations. we use available borrowings under the credit facilities and other available debt financing for cash to operate our business, which subjects us to market and counter-party risk, some of which is beyond our control. in addition to cash we generate from our business, our principal existing sources of cash are borrowings available under our credit facilities and other available debt financing. if our access to such financing was unavailable or reduced, or if such financing were to become significantly more expensive for any reason, we may not be able to fund daily operations, which would cause material harm to our business or could affect our ability to operate our business as a going concern. in addition, if certain of our lenders experience difficulties that render them unable to fund future draws on the facilities, we may not be able to access all or a portion of these funds, which could have similar adverse consequences. we utilize extended payment terms for customers and suppliers supplemented with third party financing programs to assist in effectively managing our core working capital. if the extension of payment terms are reversed or financial institutions terminate their participation, our ability to maintain current levels of core working capital could be adversely impacted. our principal source of liquidity is operating cash flows supplemented by borrowings for major acquisitions and other significant transactions. we utilize third-party financing programs to offset the negative impact of offering extended customer payment terms. in addition, in combination with extending supplier payment terms, structured payables programs are available to our suppliers which enable suppliers, at their sole discretion, to enter bilateral agreements to sell company payment obligations to designated third-party financial institutions. changes in financial markets or interest rates could make these third party financing programs less attractive to the financial institutions purchasing trade accounts receivables and company payment obligations thereunder and these financial institutions may seek to terminate their participation. in the event of such termination or if our extended payment terms are reversed, our ability to effectively manage core working capital could be adversely impacted. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders' equity, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, or enter into off-balance sheet financing, which would increase our leverage risks. as of december 29, 2018 , we had total debt of approximately $9.4 billion and total kellogg company equity of $2.6 billion. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: impairing the ability to access global capital markets to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward or if a rating organization announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade; a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both; restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business; requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such as expansion through acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing shares, marketing and other spending and expansion of our product offerings; and causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness or incur new indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. 15 our performance is affected by general economic, political and social conditions and taxation policies. customer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by recession, financial and credit market disruptions, or other economic downturns in the united states or other nations. our results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic, political and social conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, political and social unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which we carry on business. the economic, political and social conditions resulting from brexit, among other events, may adversely impact our overall performance. current economic conditions globally may delay or reduce purchases by our customers and consumers. this could result in reductions in sales of our products, reduced acceptance of innovations, and increased price competition. deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower collections on accounts receivable which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. financial institutions may be negatively impacted by economic conditions and may consolidate or cease to do business which could result in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and increased volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of effects from a financial institution credit crisis on our business, which could include impaired credit availability and financial stability of our customers, including our suppliers, co-manufacturers and distributors. a disruption in financial markets may also have an effect on our derivative counterparties and could also impair our banking partners on which we rely for operating cash management. any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not be able to attract, develop and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. we depend on the skills and continued service of key personnel, including our experienced management team. in addition, our ability to achieve our strategic and operating goals depends on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train and retain qualified individuals. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, recruit, train, develop and retain other talented personnel. any such loss, failure or negative perception with respect to these individuals may adversely affect our business or financial results. in addition, activities related to identifying, recruiting, hiring and integrating qualified individuals may require significant time and expense. we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, each of which may adversely affect our business and financial results. additionally, changes in immigration laws and policies could also make it more difficult for us to recruit or relocate skilled employees. an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. factors which could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: (i) reduced demand for our products; (ii) higher commodity prices; (iii) lower prices for our products or increased marketing as a result of increased competition; and (iv) significant disruptions to our operations as a result of both internal and external events. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. as of december 29, 2018 , the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $9.4 billion, of which $6.1 billion was goodwill and $3.3 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $17.8 billion and total kellogg company equity of $2.6 billion. competition against retailer brands could negatively impact our business. in nearly all of our product categories, we face branded and price-based competition. our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and retailer brands change in favor of competitors' products or if consumers perceive this type of change. if consumers prefer retailer brands, then we could lose category share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin 16 offerings, which could have a material effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. we may not achieve our targeted cost savings and efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives. our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. we have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. technology failures, cyber attacks, privacy breaches or data breaches could disrupt our operations, reputation and negatively impact our business. we increasingly rely on information technology systems and third party service providers, including through the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information. for example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. information technology systems are also integral to the reporting of our results of operations. furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between, and storage of personal data of, our personnel, customers, consumers and suppliers depends on information technology. our information technology systems, and the systems of the parties we communicate and collaborate with, may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, as a result of updating our enterprise platform or due to events beyond our or their control, including, but not limited to, network or hardware failures, malicious or disruptive software, unintentional or malicious actions of employees or contractors, cyberattacks by common hackers, criminal groups or nation-state organizations or social-activist (hacktivist) organizations, geopolitical events, natural disasters, failures or impairments of telecommunications networks, or other catastrophic events. moreover, our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be subjected to computer viruses, malware, ransomware or other malicious codes, social engineering attacks, unauthorized access attempts, password theft, physical breaches, employee or inside error, malfeasance and cyber- or phishing-attacks. cyber threats are constantly evolving, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of expertise and motives, and this increases the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. these events could compromise our confidential information, impede or interrupt our business operations, and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, litigation and reputational damage. furthermore, if a breach or other breakdown results in disclosure of confidential or personal information, we may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm. to date, we have not experienced a material breach of cyber security. while we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other preventive actions, such as the maintenance of an information security program that includes updating our technology and security policies, cyber insurance, employee training, and monitoring and routinely testing our information technology systems to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, they may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. the company offers promotions, rebates, customer loyalty and other programs through which it may receive personal information, and it or its vendors could experience cyber-attacks, privacy breaches, data breaches or other incidents that result in unauthorized disclosure of consumer, customer, employee or company information. i n addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data in the united states and other jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data. there is significant uncertainty with respect to compliance with such privacy and data protection laws and regulations, including with respect to the european union general data protection regulation (gdpr) (which imposes additional obligations on companies regarding the handling of personal data and provides certain individual privacy rights to persons whose data is stored), because they are continuously evolving and developing and may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. additionally, our efforts to comply with privacy and data protection laws, including the gdpr, may impose significant costs and challenges that are likely to increase over time. if the company suffers a loss as a result of a breach or other breakdown in its technology, including such cyber-attack, privacy breaches, data breaches, issues with or errors in system maintenance or security, migration of applications to the cloud, power outages, hardware or software failures, denial of service, telecommunication or 17 other incident involving one of the company's vendors, that result in unauthorized disclosure or significant unavailability of business, financial, personal or stakeholder information, the company may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm and may be exposed to legal liability and government investigations, which may adversely affect the company's results of operations and/or financial condition. the misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in violations of data privacy laws, the company may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. the company could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. in addition, if the company's suppliers or customers experience such a breach or unauthorized disclosure or system failure, their businesses could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which may result in a disruption in the company's supply chain or reduced customer orders, which would adversely affect the company's business operations. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, our technology, or any other form of intellectual property, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products or operations. in addition, if, in the course of developing new products or improving the quality of existing products, we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, such finding could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations and may limit our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. we are subject to risks generally associated with companies that operate globally. we are a global company and generated 40%, 37%, and 35% of our net sales for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively outside the united states. we manufacture our products in 21 countries and have operations in more than 180 countries, so we are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, such as ofac trade sanction regulations and anti-boycott regulations, compliance with anti-corruption laws, including u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and u.k. bribery act (ukba), compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple regimes, changes in tax laws, interpretation of tax laws and tax audit outcomes, fluctuations or devaluations in currency values, especially in emerging markets, changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product or repatriate cash from outside the united states, changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources, laws relating to information security, privacy (including the gdpr), cashless payments, and consumer protection , uncertainty relating to brexit and its impact on the local and international markets, the flow of goods and materials across borders, and political environments, discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies, challenges associated with cross-border product distribution, 18 increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit worthiness of local governments, varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights, greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles, loss of ability to manage our operations in certain markets which could result in the deconsolidation of such businesses, design and implementation of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base, imposition of more or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, and similar restrictions on our sales or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales, and changes in trade policies and trade relations. please refer to note 16 for more information regarding our operations in venezuela, including the impact on our operations from currency restrictions and our decision to deconsolidate our venezuelan operations effective december 31, 2016. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest and government shutdowns, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political or social uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. the slowdown in economic growth or high unemployment in some emerging markets could constrain consumer spending, and declining consumer purchasing power could adversely impact our profitability. continued instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries in the european union or the dynamics associated with the federal and state debt and budget challenges in the united states could adversely affect us. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. there may be uncertainty as a result of key global events during 2018. for example, the continuing uncertainty arising from the brexit referendum in the united kingdom as well as ongoing terrorist activity, may adversely impact global stock markets (including the new york stock exchange on which our common shares are traded) and general global economic conditions. all of these factors are outside of our control, but may nonetheless cause us to adjust our strategy in order to compete effectively in global markets. the results of the united kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the european union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. in june 2016, a majority of voters in the united kingdom elected to withdraw from the european union in a national referendum. in february 2017, the british parliament voted in favor of allowing the british government to begin negotiating the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union, and, in march 2017, the british government invoked article 50 of the treaty on european union, which, per the terms of the treaty, formally triggered a two-year negotiation process and puts the united kingdom on a course to withdraw from the european union by the end of march 2019. in january 2019, the draft of the withdrawal agreement that was previously published in november 2018 was rejected by uk parliament. if no agreement is concluded by march 29, 2019 the united kingdom will leave the european union at such time. accordingly, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the united kingdom determines which european union laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal. the economic conditions and outlook in the united kingdom, the european union and elsewhere could be further adversely affected by (i) the uncertainty concerning the timing and terms of the exit, (ii) new or modified trading arrangements between the united kingdom and other countries. any of these developments, or the perception that any of these developments are likely to occur, could affect economic growth or business activity in the united kingdom or the european union, and could result in the relocation of businesses, cause business interruptions, lead to economic recession or depression, and impact the stability of the financial markets, availability of credit, currency exchange rates, compliance risks, interest rates, financial institutions, and political, financial and monetary systems. any of these developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, could depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 19 potential impacts to our business include: (i) reduced efficiency in processing of product shipments between the united kingdom and other countries that could impact our ability to have sufficient products in the appropriate market for sale to customers, (ii) requirement to increase inventory levels maintained in both the united kingdom and other countries to ensure adequate supply of product to support both base and promotional activities normally executed with our customers, (iii) increased costs related to incremental warehousing and logistics services required to adequately service our customers, (iv) significant financial impact resulting from tariffs that are implemented between the united kingdom and other countries as the location of our european production facilities and the markets we sell in regularly require significant import and export shipments involving the united kingdom, (v) our ability to realize future benefit from other assets on our balance sheet, such as deferred tax assets, may be impacted which could result in additional valuation allowances or reserves being established. our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets. however, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. in many countries outside of the united states, particularly those with emerging economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the fcpa and the ukba, or local anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand and improve their production capacities. our success in emerging markets is critical to our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and regulatory risks, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. adverse changes in the global climate or extreme weather conditions could adversely affect our business or operations. climate change is a core business issue for kellogg to ensure the long-term health and viability of the ingredients we use in our products. as set forth in the intergovernmental panel on climate change fifth assessment report, there is continuing scientific evidence, as well as concern from members of the general public, that emissions of greenhouse gases and contributing human activities have caused and will continue to cause significant changes in global temperatures and weather patterns and increase the frequency or severity of weather events, wildfires and flooding. as the pressures from climate change and global population growth lead to increased demand, the food system and global supply chain is becoming increasingly vulnerable to acute shocks, leading to increased prices and volatility, especially in the energy and commodity markets. adverse changes such as these could: unfavorably impact the cost or availability of raw or packaging materials, especially if such events have a negative impact on agricultural productivity or on the supply of water; disrupt our ability, or the ability of our suppliers or contract manufacturers, to manufacture or distribute our products; disrupt the retail operations of our customers; or unfavorably impact the demand for, or the consumer's ability to purchase, our products. foreign, federal, state and local regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed various legislative and regulatory measures relating to climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions and energy policies. in the event that such regulation is enacted, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. lastly, consumers and customers may put an increased priority on purchasing products that are sustainably grown and made, requiring us to incur increased costs for additional transparency, due diligence and reporting. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. we use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. as a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 14 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on our derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related primarily to third-party purchases, intercompany transactions, and when applicable, nonfunctional currency denominated third-party debt. our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, our company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency denominated earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso, brazilian real, nigerian naira, russian ruble and egyptian pound, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including argentina, can impact our results and financial guidance. effective july 1, 2018, we have accounted for argentina as a highly inflationary economy, as the projected three-year cumulative inflation rate exceeds 100%. accordingly, our argentina subsidiary will use the u.s. dollar as its functional currency. accordingly, changes in the value of the argentine peso versus the u.s. dollar applied to our peso-denominated net monetary asset position is recorded in income at the time of the change. net monetary assets denominated in argentine pesos are not material as of december 29, 2018. there have also been periods of increased market volatility and currency exchange rate fluctuations specifically within the united kingdom and europe, as a result of the uk referendum held on june 23, 2016, in which voters approved an exit from the european union, commonly referred to as brexit. as a result of the referendum, the british government formally initiated the process for withdrawal in march 2017. in january 2019, the draft of the withdrawal agreement, that was previously published in november 2018, was rejected by the uk parliament. the terms of withdrawal have not been established. if no agreement is concluded by march 29, 2019, the united kingdom will leave the european union at such time. accordingly, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the united kingdom determines which european union laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal. we recognize that there are still significant uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of brexit negotiations, and we will continue to monitor any changes that may arise and assess their potential impact on our business. we assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and may enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements may be established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments, including cross currency swaps, at year-end 2018 was $3.1 billion, representing a settlement receivable of $78 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2017 was $2.2 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $4 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities. foreign currency contracts generally mature within 18 months and cross currency contracts mature with the related debt. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement receivable would have decreased by $199 million, resulting in a net settlement obligation of $121 million at year-end 2018 and the settlement obligation would have increased by $71 million at year-end 2017 . these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. interest rate risk our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. 55 during 2018 and 2017 , we entered into interest rate swaps, and in some instances terminated interest rate swaps, in connection with certain u.s. dollar and euro notes. refer to note 8 within notes to consolidated financial statements. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2018 was $1.6 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $5 million. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2017 was $2.3 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $54 million. assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $22 million and $27 million at year-end 2018 and 2017 , respectively. price risk our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, potato flakes, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, cartonboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. we have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2018 was $417 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $6 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2017 was $544 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $1 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement obligation would have increased by $34 million at year-end 2018 , and the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $41 million at year-end 2017 , generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. in addition to the commodity derivative instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure associated with future purchases of certain raw materials, including rice, sugar, cartonboard, and corrugated boxes. it should be noted the exclusion of these contracts from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of our company. reciprocal collateralization agreements in some instances we have reciprocal collateralization agreements with counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a net liability position to us or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. we were not required to post collateral as of december 29, 2018 and collected approximately $20 million of collateral at december 29, 2018 in the form of cash, which was reflected as an increase in other liabilities, net on the consolidated balance sheet. as of december 30, 2017, we had posted collateral of $20 million, in the form of cash, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet. as of december 29, 2018 and december 30, 2017 , we posted $18 million and $17 million, respectively, in margin deposits for exchange-traded commodity derivative instruments, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet. 56risk factors in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. if we pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. with respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, consummate a transaction on terms that are favorable to us, or achieve expected returns, expected synergies and other benefits as a result of integration challenges, or may not achieve those objectives on a timely basis. future acquisitions of foreign companies or new foreign ventures would subject us to local laws and regulations and could potentially lead to risks related to, among other things, increased exposure to foreign exchange rate changes, government price control, repatriation of profits and liabilities relating to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. with respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our divestiture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the divestiture (the "divestiture") of selected cookie, fruit and fruit-flavored snacks, pie crusts, and ice cream cone businesses, consummated on july 28, 2019 (the "divested business") may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits, the divestiture may adversely affect our business, and there are execution risks associated with our continued provision of transition services to the divested business. 10 we may not realize the benefits we expect from revenue growth management. we are utilizing formal revenue growth management practices to help us realize price in a more effective way. this approach addresses price strategy, price-pack architecture, promotion strategy, mix management, and trade strategies. revenue growth management involves changes to the way we do business and may not always be accepted by our customers, consumers or third party providers causing us not to realize the anticipated benefits. in addition, the complexity of the execution requires a substantial amount of management and operational resources. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from other business issues and have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. any failure to execute revenue growth management in accordance with our plans could adversely affect our business or financial condition. our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor. agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, rice, potato flakes, vegetable oils, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. the cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy, regulation, and/or shutdown, import and export requirements (including tariffs), global geopolitical conditions, drought and other weather conditions (including the potential effects of climate change) or other unforeseen circumstances. to the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. our hedged price could exceed the spot price on the date of purchase, resulting in an unfavorable impact on both gross margin and net earnings. also, sustained price increases may lead to declines in volume as competitors may not adjust their prices or consumers may decide not to pay the higher prices, which could lead to sales declines and loss of market share. cereal processing equipment at major domestic and international facilities are regularly fueled by electricity, natural gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities or other local suppliers. short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various plants. in addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. the cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy, regulation and/or shutdown, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. our results may be adversely affected by increases in transportation costs and reduced availability of or increases in the price of oil or other fuels. we rely on trucking and railroad operators to deliver incoming ingredients to our manufacturing locations and to deliver finished products to our customers. shortages of truck drivers and railroad workers have contributed to increased freight costs, which has had a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in particular , compliance with the electronic device logging mandate has increased the cost of transportation for us and many other companies. transportation costs are further increasing as a result of high levels of long-haul driver turnover and increased railroad traffic and service issues. additionally, energy and fuel costs can fluctuate dramatically and, at times, have resulted in significant cost increases, particularly for the price of oil and gasoline. an increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. increases in transportation and energy and fuel costs has, and may continue to affect our profitability and may increase the cost of our products, which may reduce consumer demand. a shortage in the labor pool, failure to successfully negotiate collectively bargained agreements, or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. we sponsor a number of benefit plans for employees in the united states and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. we also participate in multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. our major pension plans and u.s. collectively bargained retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. the annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to 11 year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. many of our employees are covered by collectively-bargained agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collectively-bargained agreements. strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. the terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. multiemployer pension plans could adversely affect our business. we participate in multiemployer pension plans administered by labor unions representing some of our employees. we make periodic contributions to these plans to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. our required contributions to these funds could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these funds, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make withdrawal liability payments, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. our withdrawal liability from a multiemployer plan would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. in the ordinary course of our renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that maintain these plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in a plan, and in that event, we could face a withdrawal liability. one of the multiemployer plans in which we participate is reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. we withdrew from two multiemployer pension plans in 2019 and recorded an estimate of the related withdrawal liability. while this is our best estimate of the ultimate cost of withdrawing from the plans at this time, we have not yet reached agreement on the ultimate amount of the withdrawal liability. as a result, the actual cost could differ from our estimate based on final funding assessments. we operate in the highly competitive food industry. we face competition across our product lines, including snacks, ready-to-eat cereals and other convenience foods, from other companies which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. the principal aspects of our business where we face competition include brand recognition, taste, nutritional value, price, promotion, innovation, shelf space, navigating the growing e-commerce marketplace, convenient ordering and delivery to the consumer and customer service. most of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and some of our competitors may spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities than we do. our competition with other companies in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our ability to compete also depends upon our ability to predict, identify, and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to those preferences. there are inherent marketplace risks associated with new product or packaging introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance. if we do not succeed in offering products that consumers want to buy, our sales and market share will decrease, resulting in reduced profitability. if we are unable to accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-lasting, or are unable to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales will decline. in addition, given the variety of backgrounds and identities of consumers in our consumer base, we must offer a sufficient array of products to satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. in some cases, our competitors may be able to respond to changing business and economic conditions or consumer preferences more quickly than us. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products, anticipating changes in consumer preferences with respect to dietary trends or purchasing behaviors or in effectively assessing, changing and setting proper pricing. 12 the changing retail environment and the growing presence of alternative retail channels, could negatively impact our sales and profits. our businesses are largely concentrated in the traditional retail grocery trade. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 19% of consolidated net sales during 2019 , comprised principally of sales within the united states. no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2019 . during 2019 , our top five customers, collectively, including wal-mart, accounted for approximately 33% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 50% of u.s. net sales. there can be no assurances that our largest customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and retailers become larger, our large retail customers have sought, and may continue to seek in the future, to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased promotional programs funded by their suppliers and more favorable terms. in addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own private label products. if we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. the loss of any large customer or severe adverse impact on the business operations of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. additionally, alternative retail channels, such as e-commerce retailers (including as a result of the integration of traditional and digital operations at key retailers), subscription services, discount and dollar stores, direct-to-consumer brands, drug stores and club stores, have become more prevalent. this trend away from traditional retail grocery, and towards such channels, is expected to continue in the future. if we are not successful in expanding sales in alternative retail channels, our business or financial results may be negatively impacted. in particular, substantial growth in e-commerce has encouraged the entry of new competitors and business models, intensifying competition by simplifying distribution and lowering barriers to entry. the expanding presence of e-commerce retailers has impacted, and may continue to impact, consumer preferences and market dynamics, which in turn may negatively affect our sales or profits. in addition, these alternative retail channels may create consumer price deflation, affecting our retail customer relationships and presenting additional challenges to increasing prices in response to commodity or other cost increases. also, if these alternative retail channels, such as e-commerce retailers were to take significant share away from traditional retailers that could have a flow over effect on our business and our financial results could be negatively impacted. 13 our results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands. we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we, or any of our employees, have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, the products becoming unavailable to consumers, or the failure to meet the nutrition expectations of our products or particular ingredients in our products (whether or not valid), including whether certain of our products are perceived to contribute to obesity. in addition, due to our varied and geographically diverse consumer base, we must be responsive to local consumer needs, including with respect to when and how consumers consume food products and their desire for premium or value offerings, provide an array of products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. accordingly, we might fail to anticipate consumer preferences with respect to dietary trends or purchasing behaviors, invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image or achieve the desired efforts of our marketing efforts or use data-driven marketing and advertising to reach consumers at the right time with the right message. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers, kellogg and third parties increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about kellogg, our brands, our products or any of our employees on social or digital media could seriously damage our brands, reputation and brand loyalty, regardless of the information's accuracy. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. brand recognition and loyalty can also be impacted by the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs and sponsorships, as well as our use of social media. if we do not maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our results could be negatively impacted. tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to taxes in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions where the company's subsidiaries are organized. due to economic and political conditions (including shifts in the geopolitical landscape), tax rates in the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions have been and may be subject to significant change. the future effective tax rate could be effected by changes in mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in valuation of deferred tax asset and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation which includes recently enacted u.s. tax reform and contemplated changes in other countries of long-standing tax principles if finalized and adopted could have a material impact on our income tax expense and deferred tax balances. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service and other taxing authorities with respect to taxes inside and outside of the u.s. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. there can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. we also need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax laws and regulations. the enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active, or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. 14 if our food products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability if consumers are injured as a result. selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, food borne illnesses, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. a widespread product recall or market withdrawal could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is meritless, does not prevail or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our company and our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. we could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall consumption of products in this category. adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. unanticipated business disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, contract manufacturer locations, warehousing and distribution networks and information systems that support our ability to provide our products to our customers consistently. our ability to make, move and sell products globally is critical to our success. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as product or raw material scarcity, weather (including any potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, fires or explosions, terrorism, political unrest, government shutdowns, tariffs and other trade restrictions, cybersecurity breaches, health pandemics, disruptions in logistics, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, supplier capacity constraints, or strikes, could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers', their suppliers or our contract manufacturers' operations. if we do not effectively prepare for and respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, technology, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products to our customers. if that occurs, we may lose our customers' confidence, and long-term consumer demand for our products could decline. in addition, insurance policies that may provide coverage with regard to such events may not cover any or all of the resulting financial losses. these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. evolving tax, environmental, food quality and safety or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, labeling, trade, food quality and safety and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. our activities or products, both in and outside of the united states, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the u.s. food and drug administration, u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce and labor, as well as similar and other authorities outside of the united states, international accords and treaties and others, including voluntary regulation by other bodies. legal and regulatory systems can change quickly, as demonstrated by the events of the brexit vote. in addition, legal and regulatory systems in emerging and developing markets may be less developed, and less certain. these laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic, regulatory or social events. in addition, the enforcement of remedies in certain foreign jurisdictions may be less certain, resulting in varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights. the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products are subject to governmental regulation that impose additional regulatory requirements. those regulations control such matters as food quality and safety, ingredients, advertising, product or production requirements, labeling, sustainability of packaging (including plastics), import or export of our products or ingredients, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety, the environment, 15 and restrictions on the use of government programs, such as supplemental nutritional assistance program, to purchase certain of our products. the marketing of food products has come under increased regulatory scrutiny in recent years, and the food industry has been subject to an increasing number of proceedings and claims relating to alleged false or deceptive marketing under federal, state and foreign laws or regulations. we are also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax, anticorruption standards, advertising and claims, and environmental matters. the need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax, environmental, food quality and safety, labeling or other laws or regulations, or new, evolving or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. governmental and administrative bodies within the u.s. are considering a variety of trade and other regulatory reforms. changes in legal or regulatory requirements (such as new food safety requirements and revised nutrition facts labeling and serving size regulations), or evolving interpretations of existing legal or regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations that could adversely affect our business or financial results. if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, termination of necessary licenses or permits, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. even if regulatory review does not result in these types of determinations, it could potentially create negative publicity or perceptions which could harm our business or reputation. further, modifications to international trade policy, including the expected ratification of the united states-mexico-canada agreement, changes in the european union (such as brexit) or the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas or trade barriers on key commodities, could have a negative impact on us or the industries we serve, including as a result of related uncertainty, and could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure and currency restrictions which could negatively impact our operating results. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso, brazilian real, nigerian naira, and russian ruble. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates and face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. for example, the announcement and implementation of brexit has caused, and may continue to cause, significant volatility in currency exchange rate fluctuations. consequently, changes in the value of the u.s. dollar may unpredictably and negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business. there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending our self in civil, criminal or regulatory actions (inclusive of class action lawsuits and foreign litigation), including under general, commercial, employment, environmental, data privacy or security, intellectual property, food quality and safety, anti-trust and trade, advertising and claims, and environmental laws and regulations, or in asserting our rights under various laws. for example, our marketing or claims could face allegations of false or deceptive advertising or other criticisms which could end up in litigation and result in potential liabilities or costs. in addition, we could incur substantial costs and fees in defending our self or in asserting our rights in these actions or meeting new legal requirements. the costs and other effects of potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against us, and new legal requirements, cannot be determined with certainty and may differ from expectations. our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. there are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. these include changing consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute products. our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced loyalty, reduced demand and price reductions for our brands and products. we aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of 16 existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. in addition, if sales generated by new products cause a decline in sales of the company's existing products, the company's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. our postretirement benefit-related costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of postretirement medical and pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of increased usage of medical benefits by retired employees and medical cost inflation, an increase in participants enrolled, the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension and post-retirement plan assets, potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations, and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension and post-retirement plan assets assumptions. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. the company's accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, particularly those due to the change in the fair value of pension and post-retirement plan assets and interest rates. in addition, funding requirements for our plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns, and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension and post-retirement funding obligations. we use available borrowings under the credit facilities and other available debt financing for cash to operate our business, which subjects us to market and counter-party risk, some of which is beyond our control. in addition to cash we generate from our business, our principal existing sources of cash are borrowings available under our credit facilities and other available debt financing. if our access to such financing was unavailable or reduced, or if such financing were to become significantly more expensive for any reason, we may not be able to fund daily operations, which would cause material harm to our business or could affect our ability to operate our business as a going concern. in addition, if certain of our lenders experience difficulties that render them unable to fund future draws on the facilities, we may not be able to access all or a portion of these funds, which could have similar adverse consequences. from time to time, we issue variable rate securities based on interbank offered rates (ibors) and enter into interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on an ibor. there is currently uncertainty whether certain ibors (such as libor) will continue to be available after 2021. if certain ibors cease to be available, we may need to amend affected agreements, and we cannot predict what alternative index would be negotiated with our counterparties and security holders. as a result, our interest expense could increase and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. we utilize extended payment terms for customers and suppliers supplemented with third party financing programs to assist in effectively managing our core working capital. if the extension of payment terms are reversed or financial institutions terminate their participation, our ability to maintain current levels of core working capital could be adversely impacted. our principal source of liquidity is operating cash flows supplemented by borrowings for major acquisitions and other significant transactions. we utilize third-party financing programs to offset the negative impact of offering extended customer payment terms. in addition, in combination with extending supplier payment terms, structured payables programs are available to our suppliers which enable suppliers, at their sole discretion, to enter bilateral agreements to sell company payment obligations to designated third-party financial institutions. changes in financial markets or interest rates could make these third party financing programs less attractive to the financial institutions purchasing trade accounts receivables and company payment obligations thereunder and these financial institutions may seek to terminate their participation. in the event of such termination or if our extended payment terms are reversed, our ability to effectively manage core working capital could be adversely impacted. 17 we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders' equity, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, or enter into off-balance sheet financing, which would increase our leverage risks. as of december 28, 2019 , we had total debt of approximately $7.9 billion and total kellogg company equity of $2.7 billion. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: impairing the ability to access global capital markets to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward or if a rating organization announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade; a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both; restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business; requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such as expansion through acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing shares, marketing and other spending and expansion of our product offerings; and causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness or incur new indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. our performance is affected by general economic, political and social conditions and taxation policies. customer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by recession, financial and credit market disruptions, or other economic downturns in the united states or other nations. our results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic, political and social conditions in the united states and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, trade policy, political and social unrest and terrorist acts in the united states or other countries in which we carry on business. the economic, political and social conditions resulting from brexit, among other events, may adversely impact our overall performance. current economic conditions globally may delay or reduce purchases by our customers and consumers. this could result in reductions in sales of our products, reduced acceptance of innovations, and increased price competition. deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower collections on accounts receivable which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. financial institutions may be negatively impacted by economic conditions and may consolidate or cease to do business which could result in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and increased volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of effects from a financial institution credit crisis on our business, which could include impaired credit availability and financial stability of our customers, including our suppliers, co-manufacturers and distributors. a disruption in financial markets may also have an effect on our derivative counterparties and could also impair our banking partners on which we rely for operating cash management. any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not be able to attract, develop and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. we depend on the skills and continued service of key personnel, including our experienced management team. in addition, our ability to achieve our strategic and operating goals depends on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train and retain qualified individuals. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, recruit, train, develop and retain other talented personnel. any such loss, failure or negative perception with respect to these individuals may adversely affect our business or financial results. in addition, activities related to identifying, recruiting, hiring and integrating qualified individuals may require significant time and expense. we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any 18 key employees who leave, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, each of which may adversely affect our business and financial results. additionally, changes in immigration laws and policies could also make it more difficult for us to recruit or relocate skilled employees. an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. factors which could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: (i) reduced demand for our products; (ii) higher commodity prices; (iii) lower prices for our products or increased marketing as a result of increased competition; and (iv) significant disruptions to our operations as a result of both internal and external events. should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. as of december 28, 2019 , the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $8.4 billion, of which $5.8 billion was goodwill and $2.6 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $17.5 billion and total kellogg company equity of $2.7 billion. competition against private label brands could negatively impact our business. in nearly all of our product categories, we compete against branded products as well as private label products. our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and private label products change in favor of competitors' products or if consumers perceive this type of change. if consumers prefer private label products, which are typically sold at lower prices, then we could lose category share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings, which could have a material effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. we may not achieve our targeted cost savings and efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives. our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. we have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. technology failures, cyber attacks, privacy breaches or data breaches could disrupt our operations, reputation and negatively impact our business. we increasingly rely on information technology systems and third party service providers, including through the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information. for example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. information technology systems are also integral to the reporting of our results of operations. furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between, and storage of personal data of, our personnel, customers, consumers and suppliers depends on information technology. our information technology systems, and the systems of the parties we communicate and collaborate with, may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, as a result of updating our enterprise platform or due to events beyond our or their control, including, but not limited to, network or hardware failures, malicious or disruptive software, unintentional or malicious actions of employees or contractors, cyberattacks by common hackers, criminal groups or nation-state organizations or social-activist (hacktivist) organizations, geopolitical events, natural disasters, failures or impairments of telecommunications networks, or other catastrophic events. moreover, our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be subjected to computer viruses, malware, ransomware or other malicious codes, social engineering attacks, unauthorized access attempts, password theft, physical breaches, employee or inside error, malfeasance and cyber- or phishing-attacks. cyber threats are constantly evolving, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide 19 range of expertise and motives, and this increases the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. these events could compromise our confidential information, impede or interrupt our business operations, and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, litigation and reputational damage. furthermore, if a breach or other breakdown results in disclosure of confidential or personal information, we may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm. to date, we have not experienced a material breach of cyber security. while we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other preventive actions, such as the maintenance of an information security program that includes updating our technology and security policies, insurance, employee training, and monitoring and routinely testing our information technology systems to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, they may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. the company offers promotions, rebates, customer loyalty and other programs through which it may receive personal information, and it or its vendors could experience cyber-attacks, privacy breaches, data breaches or other incidents that result in unauthorized disclosure of consumer, customer, employee or company information. the company must also successfully integrate the technology systems of acquired companies into the company's existing and future technology systems. i n addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data in the united states and other jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data. there is significant uncertainty with respect to compliance with such privacy and data protection laws and regulations, including with respect to the european union general data protection regulation (gdpr) and the california consumer privacy act of 2018 (ccpa), which went into effect on january 1, 2020 (each of which imposes additional obligations on companies regarding the handling of personal data and provides certain individual privacy rights to persons whose data is stored), because they are continuously evolving and developing and may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. additionally, our efforts to comply with privacy and data protection laws, including the gdpr and ccpa, may impose significant costs and challenges that are likely to increase over time. if the company suffers a loss as a result of a breach or other breakdown in its technology, including such cyber-attack, privacy breaches, data breaches, issues with or errors in system maintenance or security, migration of applications to the cloud, power outages, hardware or software failures, denial of service, telecommunication or other incident involving one of the company's vendors, that result in unauthorized disclosure or significant unavailability of business, financial, personal or stakeholder information, the company may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm and may be exposed to legal liability and government investigations, which may adversely affect the company's results of operations and/or financial condition. the misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in violations of data privacy laws, the company may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. the company could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. in addition, if the company's suppliers or customers experience such a breach or unauthorized disclosure or system failure, their businesses could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which may result in a disruption in the company's supply chain or reduced customer orders, which would adversely affect the company's business operations. we have also outsourced several information technology support services and administrative functions to third-party service providers, including cloud-based service providers, and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if these service providers do not perform effectively due to breach or system failure, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits and our business may be disrupted. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, our technology, or any other form of intellectual property, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. 20 we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products or operations. in addition, if, in the course of developing new products or improving the quality of existing products, we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, such finding could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations and may limit our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. we are subject to risks generally associated with companies that operate globally. we are a global company and generated 42% and 40% of our net sales for 2019 and 2018, respectively outside the united states. we manufacture our products in 21 countries and have operations in more than 180 countries, so we are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, such as ofac trade sanction regulations and anti-boycott regulations, compliance with anti-corruption laws, including u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and u.k. bribery act (ukba), compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple regimes, changes in tax laws, interpretation of tax laws and tax audit outcomes, fluctuations or devaluations in currency values, especially in emerging markets, changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product or repatriate cash from outside the united states, changes in local regulations and laws, the lack of well-established, reliable and/or impartial legal systems in certain countries in which we operate and the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in such jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources, laws relating to information security, privacy (including the gdpr), cashless payments, and consumer protection , uncertainty relating to the future trading relationship between the united kingdom and european union as a result of brexit and its impact on the local and international markets, the flow of goods and materials across borders, and political environments, discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies, challenges associated with cross-border product distribution, increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit worthiness of local governments, varying abilities to enforce intellectual property, contractual, and other legal rights, greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles, loss of ability to manage our operations in certain markets which could result in the deconsolidation of such businesses, design and implementation of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base, imposition of more or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, price controls, and similar restrictions in the countries in which we or our suppliers or manufacturers operate or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales, and changes in trade policies and trade relations. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest and government shutdowns, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political or social uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. the slowdown in economic growth or high unemployment in some emerging markets could constrain consumer spending, and declining consumer purchasing power could adversely impact our profitability. continued instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries in the european union or the dynamics associated with the federal and state debt and budget challenges in the united states could adversely affect us. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 21 there may be uncertainty as a result of key global events during 2020. for example, the continuing uncertainty related to the future trading relationship between the united kingdom and the european union arising from the brexit referendum and international trade disputes, as well as ongoing terrorist activity, may adversely impact global stock markets (including the new york stock exchange on which our common shares are traded) and general global economic conditions. all of these factors are outside of our control, but may nonetheless cause us to adjust our strategy in order to compete effectively in global markets. the results of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. following the result of a referendum in 2016, the united kingdom left the european union on january 31, 2020, commonly referred to as brexit. pursuant to the formal withdrawal arrangements agreed between the united kingdom and european union, the united kingdom will be subject to a transition period until december 31, 2020 (the transition period ), during which time european union rules will continue to apply. negotiations between the united kingdom and the european union are expected to continue in relation to the customs and trading relationship between the united kingdom and the european union following the expiration of the transition period. the uncertainty concerning the united kingdom's legal, political and economic relationship with the european union after the transition period may be a source of instability in the international markets, create significant currency fluctuations, and/or otherwise adversely affect trading agreements or similar cross-border co-operation arrangements (whether economic, tax, fiscal, legal, regulatory or otherwise). we may also face new regulatory costs and challenges as a result of brexit (including potentially divergent national laws and regulations between the united kingdom and european union) that could have an adverse effect on our operations. for example, the united kingdom could lose the benefits of global trade agreements negotiated by the european union on behalf of its members, which may result in increased trade barriers that could make our doing business in the european union and the european economic area more difficult. any of these developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, could depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. potential impacts to our business include: (i) reduced efficiency in processing of product shipments between the united kingdom and other countries that could impact our ability to have sufficient products in the appropriate market for sale to customers, (ii) requirement to increase inventory levels maintained in both the united kingdom and other countries to ensure adequate supply of product to support both base and promotional activities normally executed with our customers, (iii) increased costs related to incremental warehousing and logistics services required to adequately service our customers, (iv) significant financial impact resulting from tariffs that are implemented between the united kingdom and other countries as the location of our european production facilities and the markets we sell in regularly require significant import and export shipments involving the united kingdom, (v) our ability to realize future benefit from other assets on our balance sheet, such as deferred tax assets, may be impacted which could result in additional valuation allowances or reserves being established. our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets. however, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. in many countries outside of the united states, particularly those with emerging economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the fcpa and the ukba, or local anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand and improve their production capacities. our success in emerging markets is critical to our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and regulatory risks, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 22 adverse changes in the global climate or extreme weather conditions could adversely affect our business or operations. climate change is a core business issue for kellogg to ensure the long-term health and viability of the ingredients we use in our products. as set forth in the intergovernmental panel on climate change fifth assessment report, there is continuing scientific evidence, as well as concern from members of the general public, that emissions of greenhouse gases and contributing human activities have caused and will continue to cause significant changes in global temperatures and weather patterns and increase the frequency or severity of weather events, wildfires and flooding. as the pressures from climate change and global population growth lead to increased demand, the food system and global supply chain is becoming increasingly vulnerable to acute shocks, leading to increased prices and volatility, especially in the energy and commodity markets. adverse changes such as these could: unfavorably impact the cost or availability of raw or packaging materials, especially if such events have a negative impact on agricultural productivity or on the supply of water; disrupt production schedules and our ability, or the ability of our suppliers or contract manufacturers, to manufacture or distribute our products; reduce crop size or quality; disrupt the retail operations of our customers; or unfavorably impact the demand for, or the consumer's ability to purchase, our products. there is an increased focus by foreign, federal, state and local regulatory and legislative bodies regarding environmental policies relating to climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions , energy policies and sustainability, including single use plastics. this new or increased focus may result in new or increased laws and regulations that could cause significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. lastly, consumers and customers may put an increased priority on purchasing products that are sustainably grown and made, requiring us to incur increased costs for additional transparency, due diligence and reporting. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. we use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. as a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. refer to note 14 within notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on our derivative financial and commodity instruments. foreign exchange risk our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related primarily to third-party purchases, intercompany transactions, and when applicable, nonfunctional currency denominated third-party debt. our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, our company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency denominated earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso, brazilian real, nigerian naira, russian ruble and egyptian pound, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the british pound versus the euro. the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including argentina, can impact our results and financial guidance. effective july 1, 2018, we have accounted for argentina as a highly inflationary economy, as the projected three-year cumulative inflation rate exceeds 100%. accordingly, our argentina subsidiary will use the u.s. dollar as its functional currency. accordingly, changes in the value of the argentine peso versus the u.s. dollar applied to our peso-denominated net monetary asset position is recorded in income at the time of the change. net monetary assets denominated in argentine pesos were not material as of december 28, 2019. there have also been periods of increased market volatility and currency exchange rate fluctuations specifically within the united kingdom and europe, as a result of the uk's exit from the european union. we expect this uncertainty to continue over 2020 as negotiations evolve regarding the future trading relationship. we recognize that there are still significant uncertainties surrounding the negotiation of a trade deal with the european union, and we will continue to monitor any changes that may arise and assess their potential impact on our business. we assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and may enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in long or short currency positions. forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. currency swap agreements may be established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments, including cross currency swaps, at year-end 2019 was $4.2 billion, representing a settlement receivable of $79 million. the total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2018 was $3.1 billion, representing a settlement receivable of $78 million. all of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities. foreign currency contracts generally mature within 18 months and cross currency contracts mature with the related debt. assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement receivable would have decreased by $245 million, resulting in a net settlement obligation of $166 million at year-end 2019 and the settlement obligation would have increased by $199 million at year-end 2018 . these unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures. interest rate risk our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, london interbank offered rates (libor), and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. during 2019 and 2018 , we entered into interest rate swaps, and in some instances terminated interest rate swaps, in connection with certain u.s. dollar and euro notes. refer to note 8 within notes to consolidated financial statements. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2019 was $1.9 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $6 million. the total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2018 was $1.6 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $5 million. assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $13 million and $22 million at year-end 2019 and 2018 , respectively. 52 price risk our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. primary exposures include corn, wheat, potato flakes, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, cartonboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. we have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2019 was $524 million, representing a settlement receivable of approximately $8 million. the total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2018 was $417 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $6 million. assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement obligation would have increased by $40 million at year-end 2019 , and the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $34 million at year-end 2018 , generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. in addition to the commodity derivative instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure associated with future purchases of certain raw materials, including rice, sugar, cartonboard, and corrugated boxes. reciprocal collateralization agreements in some instances we have reciprocal collateralization agreements with counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a net liability position to us or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. we were not required to post collateral as of december 28, 2019 and collected approximately $19 million of collateral at december 28, 2019 in the form of cash, which was reflected as an increase in other liabilities, net on the consolidated balance sheet. as of december 29, 2018, we were not required to post collateral and collected approximately $20 million of collateral, in the form of cash, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet. as of december 28, 2019 and december 29, 2018 , we posted $12 million and $18 million, respectively, in margin deposits for exchange-traded commodity derivative instruments, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet. 53