risk factors 14 risk factors cautionary statements the statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook contained in this annual report on form 10-k include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (pslra). when used in this annual report on form 10-k and in future filings by us with the sec, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, plan, project, should or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. these statements are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the pslra. these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. the following discussion contains certain cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. in addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. any or all forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. by their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. actual future results may vary materially from expectations expressed in this report or any of our prior communications. if we fail to effectively estimate, price for and manage our medical costs, the profitability of our risk-based products and services could decline and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. under our risk-based benefit product arrangements, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. premium revenues from risk-based benefits products comprise approximately 90% of our total consolidated revenues. we generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. the profitability of these products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and effectively manage medical costs. in this regard, the health reform legislation established minimum medical loss ratios for certain health plans, and authorized hhs to maintain an annual review process of unreasonable increases in premiums for commercial health plans. in addition, a number of states have enhanced (or are proposing to enhance) their premium review and approval processes. see the risk factor below relating to health care reform for further discussion of these provisions. we manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered and the cost of each service. our premium revenue on commercial policies is typically at a fixed rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to four months before the contract commences. our revenue on medicare policies is based on bids submitted in june the year before the contract year. we base the premiums we charge and our medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period; however, medical cost inflation, regulation and other factors may cause actual costs to exceed what was estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. these factors may include increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, catastrophes, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of essential benefits coverage) or other regulatory changes, insured population characteristics and seasonal changes in the level of health care use. as a measure of the impact of medical costs on our financial results, relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. for example, if medical costs increased by 1% without a proportional change in related revenues for commercial insured products our annual net earnings for 2011 would have been reduced by approximately $215 million, excluding any offsetting impact from premium rebates. in addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. these estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. if these estimates prove too low, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 14 table of contents our business activities are highly regulated; new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our business is regulated at the federal, state, local and international levels. our insurance and hmo subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to the regulations of the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. for example, states require periodic financial reports and enforce minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations, and some of our activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including those relating to ppos, mcos, utilization review and tpa-related regulations and licensure requirements. some of our businesses hold or provide services related to government contracts and are subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws and regulations governing government contractors. see item 1, business - government regulation for further information. the laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. for example, in the first quarter of 2010, the health reform legislation was signed into law, legislating broad-based changes to the u.s. health care system. see item 1, business - government regulation for a discussion of the health reform legislation. the broad latitude that is given to the agencies administering regulations governing our business, as well as future laws and rules, and interpretation and enforcement of those laws and rules by governmental enforcement authorities, could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, and increase our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. we must also obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products, to increase prices for certain regulated products and to complete certain acquisitions and dispositions, including integration of certain acquisitions. for example, premium rates for our health insurance and/or managed care products are subject to regulatory review or approval in many states, and a number of states have enhanced (or are proposing to enhance) their rate review processes. delays in obtaining necessary approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain adequate approvals could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. under state guaranty fund laws, certain insurance companies (and hmos in some states), including those issuing health (which includes long-term care), life and accident insurance policies, doing business in those states can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or lines of business. changes in these laws or the interpretation thereof, or insolvency by another insurer, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. see note 12 of notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for a discussion of a matter involving an unaffiliated entity, penn treaty, which has been placed in rehabilitation. certain optum businesses are also subject to regulatory and other risks and uncertainties in addition to the risks of our businesses of providing managed care and health insurance products. for example, state corporate practice of medicine doctrines and fee-splitting rules can impact our relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. optumhealth is subject to state telemedicine laws and regulations that apply to its telemedicine initiatives. additionally, optumhealth participates in the emerging private exchange markets and it is not yet known to what extent the states will issue new regulations that apply to private exchanges. these risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted margins, or increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate. we are also involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. see note 12 of notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for a discussion of certain of these matters. see also the risk factor below relating to our activities as a payer in various government health care programs for a discussion of audits by cms. reviews and investigations of this sort can lead to government actions, which can result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the health care industry is also regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of routine governmental investigations, the political debate surrounding the health reform legislation and the political environment in general. negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price, damage our reputation in various markets, foster an increasingly active regulatory environment or result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices. this may further increase our costs of doing business and the regulatory burdens under which we operate. some of our businesses and operations are international in nature and consequently face political, economic, legal, compliance, regulatory, operational and other risks and exposures that are unique and vary by jurisdiction. the regulatory environments and associated requirements and uncertainties regarding tax, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, investment, management control, fraud and anti-corruption present additional challenges for us beyond those faced by u.s.-based businesses. such requirements and uncertainties may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or 15 table of contents to do so at targeted margins, or increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate. for a discussion of various laws and regulations that impact our businesses, see item 1, business - government regulation. the enactment or implementation of health care reforms could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct business and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in the first quarter of 2010, the health reform legislation was signed into law. the health reform legislation expands access to coverage and modifies aspects of the commercial insurance market, as well as the medicaid and medicare programs and chip and other aspects of the health care system. among other things, the health reform legislation includes guaranteed coverage and expanded benefit requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, establishes minimum medical loss ratios, creates a federal premium review process, imposes new requirements on the format and content of communications (such as explanations of benefits, or eobs) between health insurers and their members, grants to members new and additional appeal rights, imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits, reduces the medicare part d coverage gap and reduces payments to private plans offering medicare advantage. certain provisions of the health reform legislation have already taken effect, and other provisions become effective at various dates over the next several years. hhs, the dol and the treasury department have issued or proposed regulations on a number of aspects of health reform legislation, but final rules and interim guidance on other key aspects of the legislation remain pending. due to the complexity of the health reform legislation, the impact of the health reform legislation remains difficult to predict and is not yet fully known. for example, effective in 2011, the health reform legislation established minimum medical loss ratios for all commercial health plans in the large employer group, small employer group and individual markets (85% for large employer groups, 80% for small employer groups and 80% for individuals, calculated under the definitions in the health reform legislation and regulations). companies with medical loss ratios below these targets are required to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their customers annually. the potential for and size of the rebates will be measured by state, by group size and by licensed subsidiary. this disaggregation of insurance pools into much smaller pools will likely decrease the predictability of results for any given pool and could lead to variation over time in the estimates of rebates owed in total. effective in 2014, medicare advantage plans will be required to maintain a minimum medical loss ratio of 85%. depending on the results of these calculations and the manner in which we adjust our business model in light of these requirements, there could be meaningful disruptions in local health care markets, and our market share, revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, the health reform legislation requires the establishment of state-based health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers by 2014. the types of exchange participation requirements ultimately enacted by each state, the availability of federal premium subsidies within exchanges, the potential for differential imposition of state benefit mandates inside and outside the exchanges, the operation of reinsurance, risk corridors and risk adjustment mechanisms inside and outside the exchanges and the possibility that certain states may restrict the ability of health plans to continue to offer coverage to individuals and small employers outside of the exchanges, could result in disruptions in local health care markets and our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. the health reform legislation includes a maintenance of effort (moe) provision that requires states to maintain their eligibility rules for people covered by medicaid, until the secretary of hhs determines that an insurance exchange is operational in a given state. the moe provision is intended to prevent states from reducing eligibility standards and determination procedures as a way to remove adults above 133% of the federal poverty level from medicaid before implementation of expanded medicaid coverage effective in january 2014. however, states with, or projecting, a budget deficit may apply for an exception to the moe provision. if states are successful in obtaining moe waivers and allow certain medicaid programs to expire, we could experience reduced medicaid enrollment, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. several of the provisions in the health reform legislation will likely increase our medical cost trends. examples of these provisions are the excise tax on medical devices, annual fees on prescription drug manufacturers, enhanced coverage requirements (including discounted prescription drugs for medicare part d participants) and the prohibition of pre-existing condition exclusions. the annual insurance industry assessment ($8 billion levied on the insurance industry in 2014 with increasing annual amounts thereafter), which is not deductible for income tax purposes, will increase our operating costs. premium increases will be necessary to offset the impact these and other provisions will have on our medical and operating costs. these premium increases are oftentimes subject to state regulatory approval. in this regard, the federal government is encouraging states to intensify their reviews of requests for rate increases by commercial health plans and providing funding to assist in those state-level reviews. we have begun to experience greater regulatory challenges to appropriate premium rate increases in several states, including california, new york and rhode island. in addition, as required under the health reform legislation, hhs established a federal premium rate review process, which became effective in september 2011 and generally 16 table of contents applies to proposed rate increases equal to or exceeding 10% (with state-specific thresholds to be applicable commencing september 2012). the regulations further require commercial health plans in the individual and small group markets to provide to the states and hhs extensive information supporting any rate increases subject to the new federal rate review process. if we are not able to secure approval for adequate premium increases to offset increases in our cost structure, our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, plans deemed to have a history of unreasonable rate increases may be prohibited from participating in the state-based exchanges that become active under the health reform legislation in 2014. under the regulations, the hhs rate review process would apply only to health plans in the individual and small group markets. the congressional budget office has estimated that up to 34 million new individuals may eventually gain insurance coverage if the health reform legislation is implemented broadly in its current form. in addition, we expect that implementation of the health reform legislation will increase the demand for products and capabilities offered by our optum businesses. we have made and will continue to make strategic decisions and investments based, in part, on these assumptions, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if fewer individuals gain coverage under the health reform legislation than estimated or we are unable to attract these new individuals to our unitedhealthcare offerings, or if the demand for our optum businesses does not increase. certain aspects of the health reform legislation are also being challenged in federal court, with the proponents of such challenges seeking to limit the scope of or have all or portions of the health reform legislation declared unconstitutional. the united states supreme court is scheduled to hear oral arguments on certain aspects of these cases in march 2012, including the constitutionality of the individual mandate. congress may withhold the funding necessary to implement the health reform legislation, or may attempt to replace the legislation with amended provisions or repeal it altogether. any partial or complete repeal or amendment or implementation difficulties, or uncertainty regarding such events, could materially and adversely impact our ability to capitalize on the opportunities presented by the health reform legislation or may cause us to incur additional costs of compliance. for example, if the individual mandate is declared unconstitutional or repealed without corresponding changes to other provisions of the health reform legislation to protect against the risk of adverse selection (such as revisions to the guaranteed issue and renewal requirements, prohibition on pre-existing condition exclusions, and rating restrictions), our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. congress is also considering additional health care reform measures, and a number of state legislatures have enacted or are contemplating significant reforms of their health insurance markets, either independent of or to comply with or be eligible for grants or other incentives in connection with the health reform legislation. the effects of the health reform legislation and recently adopted state laws, and the regulations that have been and will be promulgated thereunder, are difficult to predict, and we cannot predict whether any other federal or state proposals will ultimately become law. such laws and rules could force us to materially change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth in certain products and market segments, restrict premium growth rates for certain products and market segments, adversely change the nature of our contracted network relationships, increase our medical and administrative costs and capital requirements, expose us to an increased risk of liability (including increasing our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations and contract interpretation) or put us at risk for loss of business. in addition, our market share, our results of operations, our financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill, and our cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by such changes. for additional information regarding the health reform legislation, see item 1, business - government regulation and item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - executive overview - regulatory trends and uncertainties. as a result of our participation in various government health care programs, both as a payer and as a service provider to payers, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments and audits that could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we participate in various federal, state and local government health care coverage programs, including as a payer in medicare advantage, medicare part d, various medicaid programs and chip, and receive substantial revenues from these programs. we also provide services to payers through our optum businesses. these programs generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible for coverage, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, reduce our participation in certain service areas or markets, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. for example, cms reduced or froze medicare advantage benchmarks that drive reimbursements between 2009 and 2011, and beginning in 2012, additional cuts to medicare advantage benchmarks will take effect, with changes being phased-in over two to six years, depending on the level of benchmark reduction in a county. although we have adjusted members' benefits and premiums on a selective basis, terminated benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to these benchmark reductions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute successfully on these or other strategies to address changes in the medicare advantage program. as part of the health reform legislation, cms has developed a system whereby a plan that meets certain quality ratings will 17 table of contents be entitled to various quality bonus payments. there can be no assurance that any of our plans will meet these quality ratings. our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by funding reductions, or if our plans do not meet the requirements to receive quality bonus payments. similarly, any reduction in medicare advantage payments could result in downward pressure on payments made to our collaborative care business in exchange for services provided to medicare advantage plans. our participation in the medicare advantage, medicare part d, and various medicaid and chip programs occurs through bids that are submitted periodically. revenues for these programs are dependent upon periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. funding for these government programs is dependent upon many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level, and general political issues and priorities. a reduction or less than expected increase, or a protracted delay, in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies may materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. state medicaid programs are also imposing other reforms, such as medical loss ratio requirements on medicaid managed care organizations, which generally require such plans to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their state customers if they cannot demonstrate they have met the ratio standards. cms uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for medicare programs, including adjusting monthly capitation payments to medicare advantage plans and medicare part d plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers as well as, for medicare part d plans only, based on comparing costs predicted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs. some state medicaid programs utilize a similar process. for example, our unitedhealthcare medicare &amp; retirement and unitedhealthcare community &amp; state businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to cms or state agencies for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. in 2008, cms announced that it will perform risk adjustment data validation (radv) audits of selected medicare health plans each year to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers, and certain of our local plans have been selected for audit. these audits may result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans. in december 2010, cms published for public comment a new proposed radv audit and payment adjustment methodology. the proposed methodology contains provisions allowing retroactive contract level payment adjustments for the year audited using an extrapolation of the error rate identified in audit samples. in february 2011, cms announced that it would be making changes to the proposed methodology based, in part, on comments submitted by industry participants. as of the date of this filing, cms has not published the revised methodology. depending on the methodology utilized, potential payment adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, the office of inspector general for hhs has audited our risk adjustment data for two local plans and has initially communicated its findings, although we cannot predict the final outcome of the audit process. any payment adjustments required as a result of the audits or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. see note 12 of notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for additional information regarding these audits. cms conducts a variety of routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews across the industry. for example, in the fourth quarter of 2011, cms conducted an audit of our medicare advantage and part d business. we are in the process of responding to preliminary findings. as with any cms review, in the event we fail to comply with applicable cms and state laws, regulations and rules, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. under the medicaid managed care program, state medicaid agencies are periodically required by federal law to seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care medicaid health programs. if we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state medicaid managed care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those medicaid plans. under the medicare part d program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a regional benchmark, which is calculated by the government after all regional bids are submitted. if the enrollee premium is not below the government benchmark, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and we will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. for example, we lost approximately 470,000 of our auto-enrolled low-income subsidy members effective january 1, 2012, because certain of our bids exceeded thresholds set by the government. in general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, and other factors. in the event any of these assumptions are materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the medicare program or other programs on which we bid, or our competitors submit bids at lower rates than our bids, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 18 table of contents if we fail to comply with applicable privacy and security laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information on our behalf, or if we fail to address emerging security threats or detect and prevent privacy and security incidents, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information are regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers. these laws, rules and requirements are subject to change. further, many of our businesses are subject to the payment card industry data security standards (pci dss), which is a multifaceted security standard that is designed to protect credit card account data as mandated by payment card industry entities. see item 1, business - government regulation for additional information. hipaa also requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. even though we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we still have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to privacy and security incidents; security attacks and breaches; acts of vandalism or theft; computer viruses; coordinated attacks by activist entities; emerging cybersecurity risks; misplaced or lost data; programming and/or human errors; or other similar events. emerging and advanced security threats, including coordinated attacks, require additional layers of security which may disrupt or impact efficiency of operations. compliance with new laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain our ability to manage our business model. for example, our ability to collect, disclose and use sensitive personal information may be further restricted, and we are awaiting final hhs regulations for many key aspects of the arra amendments to hipaa, such as with regard to marketing, electronic health records and access reports (which may necessitate system changes). in addition, hhs has announced a pilot audit program to assess hipaa compliance efforts by covered entities through 2012. although we are not aware of hhs plans to audit any of our covered entities, an audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, including the following consequences: mandatory disclosure of a privacy or security breach to the media; significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents; enforcement actions; material fines and penalties; an impact on our ability to process credit card transactions as well as an increase in related expenses; litigation; compensatory, special, punitive, and statutory damages; consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices; adverse actions against our licenses to do business; and injunctive relief. our businesses providing pbm services face regulatory and other risks and uncertainties associated with the pbm industry that may differ from the risks of our business of providing managed care and health insurance products . we provide pbm services through our optumrx and unitedhealthcare businesses. each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern their relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, customers and consumers. in addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially and adversely affect current industry practices, including the receipt or disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies, and the use of average wholesale prices. see item 1, business - government regulation for a discussion of various federal and state laws and regulations governing our pbm businesses. optumrx also conducts business as a mail order pharmacy and specialty pharmacy, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations could expose optumrx to civil and criminal penalties. our pbm businesses would be materially and adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers, and could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our mail order or specialty pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. disruptions at any of our mail order or specialty pharmacies due to an accident or an event that is beyond our control could affect our ability to timely process and dispense prescriptions and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, our pbm businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to erisa. the dol, which is the agency that enforces erisa, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pbm businesses even where our pbm businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. in the event a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply to our pbm businesses in connection with services for which our pbm businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations, we 19 table of contents could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or entering into certain prohibited transactions. unitedhealthcare employer &amp; individual is transitioning pharmacy benefit management for approximately 12 million of its commercial members, including pharmacy claims adjudication and customer service, from medco health solutions, inc. to optumrx beginning in 2013. if we are unable to execute the transition effectively, unitedhealthcare employer &amp; individual could face loss of business, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. if we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our businesses compete throughout the united states and face significant competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. we compete with other companies on the basis of many factors, including price of benefits offered and cost and risk of alternatives, location and choice of health care providers, quality of customer service, comprehensiveness of coverage offered, reputation for quality care, financial stability and diversity of product offerings. for our unitedhealthcare reporting segment, competitors include aetna inc., cigna corporation, coventry health care, inc., health net, inc., humana inc., kaiser permanente, wellpoint, inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the bluecross blueshield association and other enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas or market segments such as medicare and medicaid specialty services. for our optumrx business, competitors include medco health solutions, inc., cvs/caremark corporation and express scripts, inc. our optumhealth and optuminsight reporting segments also compete with a broad and diverse set of businesses. in particular markets, competitors may have greater capabilities, resources or market share; a more established reputation; superior supplier or health care professional arrangements; existing business relationships; or other factors that give such competitors a competitive advantage. in addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both as to our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other care professionals) in these industries. consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase customers, to improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or to maintain or increase profitability. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect, if membership or demand for other services declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products, our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. we contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other health care providers for services. our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to contract for these services at competitive prices. failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. under the typical capitation arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of premiums to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the capitated member. under some capitated arrangements, the provider may also receive additional compensation from risk sharing and other incentive arrangements. capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the health care provider. to the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider under the capitation arrangement. further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the 20 table of contents services available to our members. there can be no assurance that health care providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. in those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. in some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances, it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that does not clearly specify dollar terms. in some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. for example, we are involved in litigation with out-of-network providers, as described in more detail in litigation matters in note 12 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. accountable care organizations (acos) and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals, and other care providers choose may change the way that these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape. these changes may affect the way that we price our products and estimate our costs and may require us to incur costs to change our operations, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be adversely affected. the success of certain optum businesses depends on maintaining satisfactory physician relationships. the primary care physicians that practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. if we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with primary care physicians, or to retain enrollees following the departure of a physician, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, our affiliated physician organizations contract with health insurance and hmo competitors of unitedhealthcare. if our affiliated physician organizations fail to maintain relationships with these health insurance or hmo companies, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and certain health care providers are customers of our optum businesses. given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent producers and consultants. our products are sold in part through independent producers and consultants who assist in the production and servicing of business. we typically do not have long-term contracts with our producers and consultants, who generally are not exclusive to us and who typically also recommend and/or market health care products and services of our competitors. as a result, we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. our sales would be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain independent producers and consultants or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to them regarding our product portfolio, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. because producer commissions are included as administrative expenses under the medical loss ratio requirements of the health reform legislation, these expenses will be under the same cost reduction pressures as other administrative costs. our relationships with producers could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in our business practices and the nature of our relationships to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commissions. in addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of producers selling health care products and the payments they receive. these have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and producers marketing and selling these companies' products. for example, cms and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of producers who market medicare products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans, which could materially and adversely impact our ability to market our products. our relationship with aarp is important and the loss of such relationship could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. under our agreements with aarp, we provide aarp-branded medicare supplement insurance, hospital indemnity insurance and other products and services to aarp members under a supplement health insurance program (the aarp program). we also provide aarp-branded medicare advantage and medicare part d prescription drug plans to both aarp members and non-members. our agreements with aarp extend to december 31, 2017 for the aarp program and december 31, 2014 for the medicare advantage and medicare part d offerings. our agreements with aarp contain commitments regarding corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, diversity and measures intended to improve and simplify the health care experience for consumers. the aarp agreements may be terminated early under certain circumstances, including, depending on the 21 table of contents agreement, a material breach by either party, insolvency of either party, a material adverse change in our financial condition, material changes in the medicare programs, material harm to aarp caused by us, and by mutual agreement. the success of our aarp arrangements depends, in part, on our ability to service aarp and its members, develop additional products and services, price the products and services competitively, meet our corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, and diversity commitments, and respond effectively to federal and state regulatory changes. the loss of our aarp relationship could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. because of the nature of our business, we are routinely subject to various litigation actions, which could damage our reputation and, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. because of the nature of our business, we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to, among other things, the design, management and delivery of our product and service offerings. these matters have included or could in the future include claims related to health care benefits coverage and payment (including disputes with enrollees, customers, and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort (including claims related to the delivery of health care services), contract disputes and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. we are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups and consumers. we are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. although we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters; however, it is possible that the level of actual losses will significantly exceed the liabilities recorded. a description of significant legal actions in which we are currently involved is included in note 12 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. we cannot predict the outcome of these actions with certainty, and we are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. the legal actions we face or may face in the future could further increase our cost of doing business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain legal actions could result in adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our ability to retain our current business or grow our market share in select markets and businesses . unfavorable economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. unfavorable economic conditions may continue to impact demand for certain of our products and services. for example, decreases in employment have caused and could continue to cause lower enrollment in our employer group plans, lower enrollment in our non-employer individual plans and a higher number of employees opting out of our employer group plans. unfavorable economic conditions have also caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. in addition, unfavorable economic conditions could continue to adversely impact our employer group renewal prospects and our ability to increase premiums and could result in cancellation of products and services by our customers. all of these could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. during a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including medicare, medicaid and chip. a reduction in state medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to payments already negotiated and/or received from the government and could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, the state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the government to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and health maintenance organizations and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims, and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, a prolonged unfavorable economic environment could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could materially and adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or materially and adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. further, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the customers of our optum businesses, including health plans, hmos, hospitals, care providers, employers and others, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect optum's financial results. our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which comprise the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of december 31, 2011. relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have adversely impacted our investment income, and a prolonged low interest rate environment could further 22 table of contents adversely affect our investment income. in addition, a delay in payment of principal and/or interest by issuers, or defaults by issuers (primarily from investments in corporate and municipal bonds), could reduce our net investment income and we may be required to write down the value of our investments, which would materially and adversely affect our profitability and shareholders' equity. we also allocate a small proportion of our portfolio to equity investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. general economic conditions, stock market conditions, and many other factors beyond our control can materially and adversely affect the value of our equity investments and may result in investment losses. there can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than their carrying values. changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, changes in issuer financial conditions, illiquidity or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our shareholders' equity. in addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of regulated subsidiaries. if the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, shareholders' equity and debt ratings could be materially and adversely affected. goodwill and other intangible assets were $26.8 billion as of december 31, 2011, representing 39% of our total assets. we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. for example, the manner in or the extent to which the health reform legislation is implemented may impact our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets in our business. similarly, the value of our goodwill may be materially and adversely impacted if businesses that we acquire perform in a manner that is inconsistent with our assumptions. in addition, from time to time we divest businesses, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders' equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. a material decrease in shareholders' equity could, in turn, adversely impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. large-scale medical emergencies may result in significant medical costs and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. large-scale medical emergencies can take many forms and can cause widespread illness and death. such emergencies could materially and adversely affect the u.s. economy in general and the health care industry specifically. for example, in the event of a natural disaster, bioterrorism attack, pandemic or other extreme events, we could face, among other things, significant medical costs and increased use of health care services. any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity or availability of our data or to strategically implement new or upgrade or consolidate existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our ability to adequately price our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to accurately report our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, emerging cybersecurity risks and threats, and changing customer patterns. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. there can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting our systems against cybersecurity risks and threats, enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to protect, consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our businesses sell and install hardware and software products, and these products may contain unexpected design 23 table of contents defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. connectivity among competing technologies is becoming increasingly important in the health care industry. a failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, an uncertain and rapidly evolving federal, state, international and industry legislative and regulatory framework related to the health information technology market may make it difficult to achieve and maintain compliance and could materially and adversely affect the configuration of our information systems and platforms, and our ability to compete in this market. if we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our ability to obtain funds from some of our subsidiaries is restricted and if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from some of our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. many of these subsidiaries are regulated by states' departments of insurance. we are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium revenues generated by the applicable subsidiary. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from us. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. an inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies in the desired amounts or at the time of our choosing could adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, as well as our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment cycle, repurchase shares of our common stock and repay our debt. if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. any failure by us to manage and complete acquisitions and other significant strategic transactions successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. for acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations. we are required to integrate these businesses into our internal control environment, which may present challenges that are different than those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult to manage. if we are unable to successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. claims paying ability, financial strength, and credit ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current credit ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each credit rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. downgrades in our credit 24 table of contents ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risks are exposures to (a) changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and interest expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt and (b) changes in equity prices that impact the value of our equity investments. as of december 31, 2011 , $9.4 billion of our investments were classified as cash and cash equivalents on which interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may materially impact our investment income. also, optumhealth bank held $1.4 billion of deposit liabilities as of december 31, 2011 at interest rates that vary with market rates. the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. as of december 31, 2011 , $18.2 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities and $11.6 billion of our debt was fixed-rate term debt. an increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. we manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed income market sectors and debt across maturities, as well as endeavoring to match our floating-rate assets and liabilities over time, either directly or periodically through the use of interest rate swap contracts. in the second half of 2011, we terminated all of our interest rate swap fair value hedges with a $5.4 billion notional amount in order to lock-in the impact of low market floating interest rates and reduce the effective interest rate on hedged long-term debt. the gain of $132 million will be realized over the remaining life of the applicable hedged fixed-rate debt as a reduction to interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations. additional information on our interest rate swaps is included in note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. since the interest rate swaps have been terminated, the fair value of our long-term debt is now more sensitive to hypothetical changes in interest rates as the change in the fair value of the debt is no longer offset by the swaps. also as a result of the swaps' termination, our exposure to hypothetical changes in market rates on our interest expense is less volatile. 50 table of contents the following tables summarize the impact of hypothetical changes in market interest rates across the entire yield curve by 1% or 2% as of december 31, 2011 and 2010 on our investment income and interest expense per annum, and the fair value of our investments and debt (in millions): december 31, 2011 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of investments (b) fair value of debt 2 % $ 199 $ 28 $ (1,239 ) $ (1,946 ) 1 99 14 (622 ) (1,082 ) (1) (12 ) (4 ) 586 1,086 (2) nm nm 885 2,343 december 31, 2010 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of investments fair value of debt 2 % $ 182 $ 163 $ (1,177 ) $ (860 ) 1 91 82 (602 ) (471 ) (1) (10 ) (21 ) 613 560 (2) nm nm 1,227 1,240 nm = not meaningful (a) given the low absolute level of short-term market rates on our floating-rate assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2011 and 2010 , the assumed hypothetical change in interest rates does not reflect the full 1% point reduction in interest income or interest expense as the rate cannot fall below zero and thus the 2% point reduction is not meaningful. (b) as of december 31, 2011 , some of our investments had interest rates below 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in the fair value of investments does not reflect the full 2% point reduction. as of december 31, 2011 , we had $544 million of investments in equity securities and venture capital funds, a portion of which were invested in various public and non-public companies concentrated in the areas of health care delivery and related information technologies. market conditions that affect the value of health care or technology stocks will impact the value of our equity investments. 51 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors cautionary statements the statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook contained in this annual report on form 10-k include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (pslra). when used in this annual report on form 10-k and in future filings by us with the sec, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, plan, project, should or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. these statements are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the pslra. these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. the following discussion contains cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. in addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. any or all forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. by their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. actual future results may vary materially from expectations expressed in this report or any of our prior communications. if we fail to effectively estimate, price for and manage our medical costs, the profitability of our risk-based products and services could decline and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. under our risk-based benefit product arrangements, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. premium revenues from risk-based benefits products comprise approximately 90% of our total consolidated revenues. we generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. the profitability of these products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and effectively manage medical costs. in this regard, the health reform legislation established minimum medical loss ratios for certain health plans and authorized hhs to maintain an annual price increase review process for commercial health plans, which could make it more difficult for us to price our products competitively. see the risk factor below relating to health care reform for further discussion of these provisions. in addition, our optumhealth collaborative care business negotiates capitation arrangements with commercial third party payers. under the typical capitation arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of a third party payer's premiums to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the capitated member. if we fail to accurately predict, price for or manage the costs of providing care to our capitated members, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered and the cost of each 16 table of contents service. our premium revenue on commercial policies is typically at a fixed rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to four months before the contract commences. our revenue on medicare policies is based on bids submitted in june the year before the contract year. we base the premiums we charge and our medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period; however, many factors may cause actual costs to exceed what was estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. these factors may include medical cost inflation, increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, natural catastrophes or other large-scale medical emergencies, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of essential benefits coverage) or other regulatory changes and insured population characteristics. relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. for example, if our 2012 medical costs for commercial insured products were 1% higher, without proportionally higher revenues from such products, our annual net earnings for 2012 would have been reduced by approximately $215 million, excluding any offsetting impact from premium rebates. in addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. these estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. if these estimates prove too low, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our business activities are highly regulated; new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our business is regulated at the federal, state, local and international levels. our insurance and hmo subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to the regulations of the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. for example, states require periodic financial reports and enforce minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations, and some of our activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including those relating to ppos, mcos, utilization review and tpa-related regulations and licensure requirements. some of our unitedhealthcare and optum businesses hold or provide services related to government contracts and are subject to u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. self-referral, anti-kickback, medical necessity, risk adjustment, false claims, debt collection and other laws and regulations governing government contractors and the use of government funds. in addition, under state guaranty fund laws, certain health, life and accident insurance companies and, in certain cases, hmos can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or lines of business in these states, which would expose our business to the risk of insolvency of a competitor in these states. certain of our optum businesses are also subject to regulatory and other risks and uncertainties, some of which are distinct from those faced by our insurance and hmo subsidiaries, including, for example, fda regulations, state telemedicine regulations and state corporate practice of medicine doctrines and fee-splitting rules, some of which could impact our relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. additionally, optumhealth participates in the emerging private exchange markets and it is not yet known to what extent the states will issue new regulations that apply to private exchanges. these risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted margins, or increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate. the laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change, and the integration into our businesses of entities that we acquire may affect the way in which existing laws and rules apply to us. the broad latitude given to the agencies administering, interpreting and enforcing current and future regulations governing our business could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, or expose us to increased liability in courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. we must also obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products, increase prices for certain regulated products and complete certain acquisitions and dispositions or integrate certain acquisitions. for example, premium rates for our health insurance and/or managed care products are subject to regulatory review or approval in many states and by the federal government, and a number of states have enhanced (or are proposing to enhance) their rate review processes. in addition, geographic and product expansions may be subject to state and federal regulatory approvals. delays in obtaining necessary approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain adequate approvals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. some of our businesses and operations are international in nature and consequently face political, economic, legal, compliance, regulatory, operational and other risks and exposures that are unique and vary by jurisdiction. the regulatory environments and associated requirements and uncertainties regarding tax, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, investment, management control, labor relations, fraud and corruption present compliance requirements and uncertainties for us that are different from those faced by u.s.-based businesses. we have recently acquired and may in the future acquire or commence additional businesses based outside of the united states. for example, our acquisition of amil in october 2012 17 table of contents subjects us to brazilian laws and regulations affecting the managed care and insurance industries, which vary from comparable u.s. laws and regulations, and regulation by brazilian regulators, whose approach to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of industry regulations could differ from the approach taken by u.s. regulators. for more information about the amil acquisition, see note 6 of notes to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8, financial statements. in addition, our non-u.s. businesses and operations are also subject to u.s. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of u.s.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. our failure to comply with u.s. or non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the united states or to establish constructive relations with non-u.s. regulators could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the health care industry is also regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of governmental investigations, adverse media coverage and political debate surrounding industry regulation. negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price, damage our reputation in various markets or foster an increasingly active regulatory environment, which, in turn, could further increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate and our costs of doing business. for a discussion of various laws and regulations that impact our businesses, see item 1, business - government regulation. the implementation of the health reform legislation and other reforms could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct business and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the health reform legislation expands access to coverage and modifies aspects of the commercial insurance market, as well as the medicaid and medicare programs, chip and other aspects of the health care system. among other things, the health reform legislation includes guaranteed coverage and expanded benefit requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, establishes minimum medical loss ratios, creates a federal premium review process, imposes new requirements on the format and content of communications (such as explanations of benefits, or eobs) between health insurers and their members, grants to members new and additional appeal rights, imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits, reduces the medicare part d coverage gap and reduces payments to private plans offering medicare advantage. certain provisions of the health reform legislation have already taken effect, and other provisions become effective at various dates over the next several years. hhs, the dol and the treasury department have issued or proposed regulations on a number of aspects of health reform legislation, but final rules and interim guidance on other key aspects of the legislation remain pending. due to the complexity of the health reform legislation, the impact of the health reform legislation remains difficult to predict and is not yet fully known. for example, effective in 2011, the health reform legislation established minimum medical loss ratios for all commercial health plans in the large employer group, small employer group and individual markets (85% for large employer groups, 80% for small employer groups and 80% for individuals, calculated under the definitions in the health reform legislation and regulations), subject to state specific exceptions. companies with medical loss ratios below these targets are required to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their customers annually. the medical loss ratios that determine the size of the rebates will be measured by state, by group size and by licensed subsidiary. this disaggregation of insurance pools into much smaller pools will likely decrease the predictability of results for any given pool and could lead to variation over time in the estimates of rebates owed in total. effective in 2014, medicare advantage plans will be required to maintain a minimum medical loss ratio of 85%, although the rules expected to set forth the basis for calculating this medical loss ratio have not yet been issued. some state medicaid programs are also imposing medical loss ratio requirements on medicaid managed care organizations, which generally require such plans to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their state customers if they cannot demonstrate they have met the minimum medical loss ratios. depending on our calculations of the medical loss ratios for each of our plans and the manner in which we adjust our business model in light of these requirements, there could be meaningful disruptions in local health care markets, and our market share, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, the health reform legislation requires the establishment of state-based health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers by 2014. the types of exchange participation requirements ultimately enacted by each state, the availability of federal subsidies for premiums and cost-sharing reductions within exchanges, the potential for differential imposition of state benefit mandates inside and outside the exchanges, the operation of reinsurance, risk corridors and risk adjustment mechanisms inside and outside the exchanges and the possibility that certain states may restrict the ability of health plans to continue to offer coverage to individuals and small employers outside of the exchanges could result in disruptions in local health care markets and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. the health reform legislation also includes specific reforms for the individual and small group marketplace, scheduled to take effect in january 2014, including adjusted community rating requirements (which include elimination of health status and gender rating factors), essential health benefit requirements (expected to result in benefit changes for many members) and actuarial value requirements likely to result in expanded benefits or reduced member cost sharing (or a combination of both) for some policyholders. although hhs issued proposed regulations related to these provisions in late 2012, the federal regulations 18 table of contents are not yet final and most states have not issued implementing regulations or guidance with respect to these provisions. depending on the timing and outcome of the final federal regulations and required state regulations or guidance, there could be disruptions in local health care markets and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. the health reform legislation includes a maintenance of effort (moe) provision that requires states to maintain their eligibility rules for adults covered by medicaid, until the secretary of hhs determines that an insurance exchange is operational in a given state, scheduled for january 2014, and for children covered by medicaid or chip, through federal fiscal year 2019. states with, or projecting, a budget deficit may apply for an exception to the moe provision. if states are successful in obtaining moe waivers and allow certain medicaid programs to expire, we could experience reduced medicaid enrollment, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. under the u.s. supreme court's june 2012 decision, state participation in the health reform legislation's medicaid expansion is voluntary. several states have indicated they may not expand their medicaid programs based on concerns over costs when expanded federal funding pares down, starting in 2017. the extent to which states expand their medicaid programs, or discontinue current expansion programs, could adversely impact our medicaid enrollment levels, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. several of the provisions in the health reform legislation will likely increase our medical cost trends. examples of these provisions are the excise tax on medical devices, annual fees on prescription drug manufacturers, enhanced coverage requirements (including essential health benefit requirements and phased-in closing of the coverage gap for medicare part d participants), the prohibition of pre-existing condition exclusions and the implementation of adjusted community rating requirements. the annual insurance industry assessment ($8 billion to be levied on the insurance industry in 2014 increasing to $14.3 billion by 2018 with increasing annual amounts thereafter), which is not deductible for income tax purposes, and the temporary reinsurer's fee ($25 billion to be levied on all commercial lines of business including insured and self-funded arrangements, over a three-year period starting in 2014), will increase our operating costs. premium increases or benefit reductions will be necessary to offset the impact these and other provisions will have on our medical and operating costs. these premium increases are often subject to state regulatory approval, and the federal government is encouraging states to intensify their reviews of requests for rate increases by commercial health plans and providing funding to assist in those state-level reviews. we have begun to experience greater regulatory challenges to appropriate premium rate increases in several states, including california and new york. in addition, as required under the health reform legislation, hhs established a federal premium rate review process, which became effective in september 2011 and generally applies to proposed rate increases equal to or exceeding 10%. the regulations further require commercial health plans in the individual and small group markets to provide to the states and hhs extensive information supporting rate increases. if we are not able to secure approval for adequate premium increases to offset increases in our cost structure or if consumers forego coverage as a result of such premium increases, our margins, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, plans deemed to have a history of unreasonable rate increases may be prohibited from participating in the state-based exchanges that become active under the health reform legislation in 2014. under the regulations, the hhs rate review process would apply only to health plans in the individual and small group markets. we also expect that implementation of the health reform legislation will increase the demand for products and capabilities offered by our optum businesses. we have made and will continue to make strategic decisions and investments based, in part, on these assumptions, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if fewer individuals gain coverage under the health reform legislation than we expect or we are unable to attract these new individuals to our unitedhealthcare offerings, or if the demand for our optum businesses does not increase. future regulatory or legislative action could further impact the implementation of health reform legislation. for example, congress may attempt to amend or withhold the funding necessary to implement the health reform legislation. in addition, a number of state legislatures have enacted or are contemplating significant reforms of their health insurance markets, either independent of or to comply with or be eligible for grants or other incentives in connection with the health reform legislation. new federal or state laws and regulations could force us to materially change how we do business and any amendment, withholding of funding, extended delays in the issuance of necessary federal and state implementing regulations or guidance or other uncertainty regarding the health reform legislation could materially and adversely impact our ability to capitalize on the opportunities presented by the legislation or cause us to incur additional costs of compliance or reverse some of the changes we have already implemented. in addition, our market share, our results of operations, our financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill, and our cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by legislative and regulatory changes. for additional information regarding the health reform legislation, see item 1, business - government regulation and item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - executive overview - regulatory trends and uncertainties. 19 table of contents as a result of our participation in various government health care programs, both as a payer and as a service provider to payers, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments, audits and government investigations that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we participate in various federal, state and local government health care coverage programs, including as a payer in medicare advantage, medicare part d, various medicaid programs, chip and our tricare west contract with the dod, and receive substantial revenues from these programs. we also provide services to payers through our optum businesses. these programs generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible for coverage, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, reduce our participation in certain service areas or markets, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. revenues for these programs are dependent upon periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. funding for these government programs is dependent upon many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level, and general political issues and priorities. for example, cms has in the past reduced or frozen medicare advantage benchmarks and additional cuts to medicare advantage benchmarks are expected in the next few years. although we have adjusted members' benefits and premiums on a selective basis, terminated benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to these benchmark reductions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute successfully on these or other strategies to address changes in the medicare advantage program. a reduction or less than expected increase, or a protracted delay, in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. under the medicaid managed care program, state medicaid agencies are periodically required by federal law to seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care medicaid health programs. if we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state medicaid managed care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those medicaid plans. under the medicare part d program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a regional benchmark, which is calculated by the government after all regional bids are submitted. if the enrollee premium is not below the government benchmark, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and we will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. for example, we lost approximately 470,000 of our auto-enrolled low-income subsidy members in 2012 because certain of our bids exceeded thresholds set by the government. in general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, and other factors. in the event any of these assumptions are materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the medicare program or other programs on which we bid, or our competitors submit bids at lower rates than our bids, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. many of the government health care coverage programs in which we participate are subject to the prior satisfaction of certain conditions or performance standards or benchmarks. for example, as part of the health reform legislation, cms has developed a system entitling plans that meet certain quality ratings at the local plan level to various quality bonus payments. in addition, under the health reform legislation, congress authorized cms and the states to implement mme managed care demonstration programs to serve dually eligible beneficiaries to improve the coordination of their care. health plan participation in these demonstration programs is subject to cms approval of specified care delivery models and the satisfaction of conditions to participation, including meeting certain performance requirements. any changes in standards or care delivery models that apply to government health care programs, including medicare, medicaid and the mme demonstration programs for dually eligible beneficiaries, or our inability to meet government performance requirements or to match the performance of our competitors could result in limitations to our participation in or exclusion from these or other government programs, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. cms uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for medicare programs, including adjusting monthly capitation payments to medicare advantage plans and medicare part d plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers as well as, for medicare part d plans, risk-sharing provisions based on a comparison of costs predicted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs. some state medicaid programs utilize a similar process. for example, our unitedhealthcare medicare &amp; retirement and unitedhealthcare community &amp; state businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to cms or state agencies for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. cms and the office of inspector general for hhs periodically perform risk adjustment data validation (radv) audits of selected medicare health plans to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers, and certain of our local plans have been audited. such audits have in the past resulted and could in the future result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans, fines, corrective action plans or other adverse action by cms. in february 2012, cms published a final radv audit and payment adjustment methodology. the methodology contains provisions allowing retroactive contract level payment adjustments for the year audited, beginning with 2011 payments, using an extrapolation of the error rate identified in audit samples and, for medicare advantage plans, after considering a fee-for-service (ffs) error rate adjuster that will be used in determining the payment 20 table of contents adjustment. depending on the plans selected for audit, if any, and the error rate found in those audits, if any, potential payment adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we have been and may in the future become involved in various governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments. these include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by cms, state insurance and health and welfare departments, state attorneys general, the oig, the office of personnel management, the office of civil rights, the ftc, u.s. congressional committees, the doj, u.s. attorneys, the sec, the cvm, the irs, the srf, the dol, the fdic and other governmental authorities. certain of our businesses have been reviewed or are currently under review, including for, among other things, compliance with coding and other requirements under the medicare risk-adjustment model. such investigations, audits or reviews sometimes arise out of or prompt claims by private litigants or whistleblowers that, among other things, we failed to disclose certain business practices or, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government. governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments could expand to subjects beyond those targeted by the original investigation, audit, review, assessment or private action and could lead to government actions, which could result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. see note 12 of notes to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8, financial statements for a discussion of certain of these matters. if we fail to comply with applicable privacy and security laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information on our behalf, or if we fail to address emerging security threats or detect and prevent privacy and security incidents, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information are regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers. these laws, rules and requirements are subject to change. further, many of our businesses are subject to the payment card industry data security standards (pci dss), which is a multifaceted security standard that is designed to protect credit card account data as mandated by payment card industry entities. see item 1, business - government regulation for additional information. hipaa also requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. even though we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we still have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to privacy and security incidents; security attacks and breaches; acts of vandalism or theft; computer viruses; coordinated attacks by activist entities; emerging cybersecurity risks; misplaced or lost data; programming and/or human errors; or other similar events. emerging and advanced security threats, including coordinated attacks, require additional layers of security which may disrupt or impact efficiency of operations. compliance with new privacy and security laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain our ability to manage our business model. for example, final hhs regulations released in january 2013 implementing the arra amendments to hipaa may further restrict our ability to collect, disclose and use sensitive personal information and may impose additional compliance requirements on our business. in addition, hhs has announced that it will continue its audit program to assess hipaa compliance efforts by covered entities. although we are not aware of hhs plans to audit any of our covered entities, an audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business, including mandatory disclosure to the media, significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents and material fines, penalties and litigation awards, among other consequences, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our businesses providing pbm services face regulatory and other risks and uncertainties associated with the pbm industry that may differ from the risks of our business of providing managed care and health insurance products . we provide pbm services through our optumrx and unitedhealthcare businesses. each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern their relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies, customers and consumers. optumrx also conducts business as a mail order pharmacy and specialty pharmacy, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially and adversely affect current industry practices, including the receipt or disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies, and the use of average 21 table of contents wholesale prices. see item 1, business - government regulation for a discussion of various federal and state laws and regulations governing our pbm businesses. our pbm businesses would also be materially and adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and other suppliers, and could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our mail order or specialty pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. disruptions at any of our mail order or specialty pharmacies due to an accident or an event that is beyond our control could affect our ability to timely process and dispense prescriptions and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, our pbm businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to erisa. the dol, which is the agency that enforces erisa, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pbm businesses even where our pbm businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. in the event a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply to our pbm businesses in connection with services for which our pbm businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or entering into certain prohibited transactions. unitedhealthcare employer &amp; individual recently began to transition pharmacy benefit management for approximately 12 million of its commercial members, including pharmacy claims adjudication and customer service, from express scripts' subsidiary, medco health solutions, inc., to optumrx. if our customers are not satisfied with our pharmacy benefit management services as a result of this transition, unitedhealthcare employer &amp; individual could face loss of business, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. if we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our businesses compete throughout the united states and face significant competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. we compete with other companies on the basis of many factors, including price of benefits offered and cost and risk of alternatives, location and choice of health care providers, quality of customer service, comprehensiveness of coverage offered, reputation for quality care, financial stability and diversity of product offerings. for our unitedhealthcare businesses, competitors include aetna inc., cigna corporation, coventry health care, inc., health net, inc., humana inc., kaiser permanente, wellpoint, inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the blue cross blue shield association, and, with respect to our brazilian operations, several established competitors in brazil, and other enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas. for our optumrx businesses, competitors include cvs caremark corporation, express scripts, inc. and catamaran corporation. our optumhealth and optuminsight reportable segments also compete with a broad and diverse set of businesses. in particular markets, competitors may have greater capabilities, resources or market share; a more established reputation; superior supplier or health care professional arrangements; better existing business relationships; or other factors that give such competitors a competitive advantage. in addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both among our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other care professionals). consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase our customer base, improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or maintain or increase profitability. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect or declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products, our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. we contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other health care providers for services. our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to contract for these services at competitive prices. failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital 22 table of contents organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. in addition, accountable care organizations (acos), practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other care providers choose may change the way that these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape. such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which may impact our relationships with these providers or affect the way that we price our products and estimate our costs and may require us to incur costs to change our operations, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. we have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the health care provider. to the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider under the capitation arrangement. further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. there can be no assurance that health care providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. in those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. in some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances, it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that does not clearly specify dollar terms. in some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. for example, we are involved in litigation with out-of-network providers, as described in more detail in litigation matters in note 12 of notes to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8, financial statements. the success of certain optum businesses, particularly collaborative care, depends on maintaining satisfactory physician relationships. the primary care physicians that practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. if we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with primary care physicians, or to retain enrollees following the departure of a physician, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, our affiliated physician organizations contract with health insurance and hmo competitors of unitedhealthcare. if our affiliated physician organizations fail to maintain relationships with these health insurance or hmo companies, or to adequately price their contracts with these third party payers, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and certain health care providers are customers of our optum businesses. given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. because of the nature of our business, we are routinely subject to various litigation actions, which could damage our reputation and, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. because of the nature of our business, we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to, among other things, the design, management and delivery of our product and service offerings. these matters have included or could in the future include claims related to health care benefits coverage and payment (including disputes with enrollees, customers, and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort (including claims related to the delivery of health care services, such as medical malpractice by health care practitioners who are employed by us, have contractual relationships with us, or serve as providers to our managed care networks), contract and labor disputes, tax claims and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. we are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups and consumers. in addition, we periodically acquire businesses or commence operations in jurisdictions outside of the united states, where contractual rights, tax positions and applicable regulations may be subject to interpretation or uncertainty to a greater degree than in the united states, and therefore subject to dispute by customers, government authorities or others. we are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. although we maintain excess 23 table of contents liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters; however, it is possible that the level of actual losses will significantly exceed the liabilities recorded. a description of significant legal actions in which we are currently involved is included in note 12 of notes to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8, financial statements. we cannot predict the outcome of these actions with certainty, and we are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. the legal actions we face or may face in the future could further increase our cost of doing business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain legal actions could result in adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our ability to retain our current business or grow our market share in select markets and businesses. any failure by us to successfully manage our strategic alliances or complete, manage or integrate acquisitions and other significant strategic transactions could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. for example, we have a strategic alliance with aarp under which we provide aarp-branded medicare supplement insurance to aarp members and other aarp-branded products and services to both aarp members and non-members. if we fail to meet the needs of aarp and its members, including by developing additional products and services, pricing our products and services competitively or responding effectively to applicable federal and state regulatory changes, our alliance with the aarp could be damaged or terminated, which in turn could adversely impact our reputation, business and results of operations. further, if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. for acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations. we are required to integrate these businesses into our internal control environment, which may present challenges that are different than those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult to manage. if we are unable to successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. as we continue to expand our business outside the united states, acquired foreign businesses, such as amil, will present challenges that are different from those presented by acquisitions of domestic businesses, including adapting to new markets, business, labor and cultural practices and regulatory environments that are materially different from what we have experienced in our u.s. operations. for more information on the amil acquisition, see note 6 of notes to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8, financial statements. adapting to these challenges could require us to devote significant senior management and other resources to the acquired businesses before we realize anticipated benefits or synergies from the acquired businesses. these challenges vary widely by country and may include political instability, government intervention, discriminatory regulation, and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that could prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which our acquired businesses operate or converting local currencies that we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies. if we are unable to successfully manage our foreign acquisitions, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our shareholders' equity from period to period, which could adversely affect our debt to debt-plus-equity ratio, and the future costs of or revenues and cash flows from our international operations, and any measures we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies may be costly or ineffective. sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent producers and consultants. our products are sold in part through independent producers and consultants who assist in the production and servicing of business. we typically do not have long-term contracts with our producers and consultants, who generally are not exclusive to us and who typically also recommend and/or market health care products and services of our competitors. as a result, we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. our sales would be materially and adversely affected if we were unable to attract or retain independent producers and consultants or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to them regarding our product portfolio, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. because producer commissions are included as administrative expenses under the medical loss ratio requirements of the health reform legislation, these expenses will be under the same cost reduction pressures as other administrative costs. our 24 table of contents relationships with producers could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in our business practices and the nature of our relationships to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commissions. in addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of producers selling health care products and the payments they receive. these have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and producers marketing and selling these companies' products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans, which could materially and adversely impact our ability to market our products. unfavorable economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. unfavorable economic conditions may impact demand for certain of our products and services. for example, high unemployment rates have caused and could continue to cause lower enrollment or lower rates of renewal in our employer group plans and our non-employer individual plans. unfavorable economic conditions have also caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. in addition, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact our ability to increase premiums or result in the cancellation by certain customers of our products and services. all of these could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. during a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including medicare, medicaid and chip. a reduction in state medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to payments already negotiated and/or received from the government and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, the state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the government to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and health maintenance organizations and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims, and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, a prolonged unfavorable economic environment could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could materially and adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or materially and adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. further, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the customers of our optum businesses, including health plans, hmos, hospitals, care providers, employers and others, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect optum's financial results. our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which comprise the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of december 31, 2012. relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have adversely impacted our investment income, and a prolonged low interest rate environment could further adversely affect our investment income. in addition, a delay in payment of principal and/or interest by issuers, or defaults by issuers (primarily from investments in corporate and municipal bonds), could reduce our net investment income and we may be required to write down the value of our investments, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability and shareholders' equity. we also allocate a small proportion of our portfolio to equity investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. general economic conditions, stock market conditions, and many other factors beyond our control can materially and adversely affect the value of our equity investments and may result in investment losses. there can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than their carrying values. changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, changes in issuer financial conditions, illiquidity or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our shareholders' equity. in addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of regulated subsidiaries. if the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, shareholders' equity and debt ratings could be materially and adversely affected. goodwill and other intangible assets were $36.0 billion as of december 31, 2012, representing 44% of our total consolidated assets. we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. for example, the manner in or the extent to which the health reform legislation is implemented may impact our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill and other 25 table of contents intangible assets in our business. similarly, the value of our goodwill may be materially and adversely impacted if businesses that we acquire perform in a manner that is inconsistent with our assumptions. in addition, from time to time we divest businesses, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders' equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. a material decrease in shareholders' equity could, in turn, adversely impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with our debt covenants. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity or availability of our data or to strategically implement new or upgrade or consolidate existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our ability to adequately price our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to accurately report our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we periodically consolidate, integrate, upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, emerging cybersecurity risks and threats, and changing customer patterns. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. there can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting our systems against cybersecurity risks and threats, enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to protect, consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our businesses sell and install hardware and software products, and these products may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. connectivity among competing technologies is becoming increasingly important in the health care industry. a failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, uncertain and rapidly evolving u.s. federal and state, non-u.s. and international laws and regulations related to the health information technology market may present compliance challenges and could materially and adversely affect the configuration of our information systems and platforms, and our ability to compete in this market. if we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our ability to obtain funds from some of our subsidiaries is restricted and if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from some of our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. many of these subsidiaries are regulated by departments of insurance. we are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium revenues generated by the applicable subsidiary. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from us. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that 26 table of contents exceed specified amounts. an inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies in the desired amounts or at the time of our choosing could adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, as well as our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment cycle, repurchase shares of our common stock and repay our debt. if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. claims paying ability, financial strength, and credit ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current credit ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each credit rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risks are exposures to (a) changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and interest expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt, (b) foreign currency exchange rate risk of the u.s. dollar primarily to the brazilian real and (c) changes in equity prices that impact the value of our equity investments. as of december 31, 2012 , we had $9.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents and investments on which the interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may materially impact our investment income. also, $6.7 billion of our debt and deposit liabilities as of december 31, 2012 were at interest rates that vary with market rates, either directly or through the use of related interest rate swap contracts. the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. as of december 31, 2012 , $19.1 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities and $13.6 billion of our debt was non-swapped fixed-rate term debt. an increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. 51 table of contents we manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed income market sectors and debt across maturities, as well as endeavoring to match our floating-rate assets and liabilities over time, either directly or periodically through the use of interest rate swap contracts. the following tables summarize the impact of hypothetical changes in market interest rates across the entire yield curve by 1% or 2% as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 on our investment income and interest expense per annum, and the fair value of our investments and debt (in millions, except percentages): december 31, 2012 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of investments (b) fair value of debt 2 % $ 189 $ 134 $ (1,303 ) $ (2,200 ) 1 94 67 (656 ) (1,194 ) (1) (18 ) (14 ) 518 1,366 (2) nm nm 686 2,747 december 31, 2011 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of investments (b) fair value of debt 2% $ 199 $ 28 $ (1,239 ) $ (1,946 ) 1 99 14 (622 ) (1,082 ) (1) (12 ) (4 ) 586 1,086 (2) nm nm 885 2,343 nm = not meaningful (a) given the low absolute level of short-term market rates on our floating-rate assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 , the assumed hypothetical change in interest rates does not reflect the full 100 basis point reduction in interest income or interest expense as the rate cannot fall below zero and thus the 200 basis point reduction is not meaningful. (b) as of december 31, 2012 , some of our investments had interest rates below 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in the fair value of investments does not reflect the full 200 basis point reduction. with the amil acquisition, we have an exposure to changes in the value of the brazilian real to the u.s. dollar in translation of amil's operating results at the average exchange rate over the accounting period, and amil's assets and liabilities at the spot rate at the end of the accounting period. the gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements into u.s. dollars are included in shareholders' equity and comprehensive income. an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real reduces the carrying value of the net assets denominated in brazilian real. for example, as of december 31, 2012 a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real would cause a reduction in net assets of $510 million. we manage exposure to foreign currency risk by conducting our international business operations primarily in their functional currencies. we funded certain cash needs of amil through intercompany notes. at december 31, 2012, we had currency swaps with a total notional amount of $256 million hedging the u.s. dollar to the brazilian real to provide a cash flow hedge on the principal amount of the intercompany notes to amil. as of december 31, 2012 , we had $677 million of investments in equity securities, including employee savings plan related investments of $348 million and venture capital funds, a portion of which were invested in various public and non-public companies concentrated in the areas of health care delivery and related information technologies. market conditions that affect the value of health care or technology stocks will impact the value of our equity investments. 52 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors cautionary statements the statements, estimates, projections or outlook contained in this annual report on form 10-k include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (pslra). when used in this annual report on form 10-k and in future filings by us with the sec, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, forecast, plan, project, should or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. these statements are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the pslra. these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this report and, except as required by law; we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date of this report. the following discussion contains cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. we do not undertake to address in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations how any of these factors may have caused our results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. in addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. any or all forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. by their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. 14 if we fail to effectively estimate, price for and manage our medical costs, the profitability of our risk-based products and services could decline and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. through our risk-based benefit products, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. premium revenues from risk-based benefits products comprise approximately 90% of our total consolidated revenues. we generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. the profitability of our products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and effectively manage medical costs. in this regard, health reform legislation established minimum mlrs for certain health plans and authorized hhs to maintain an annual price increase review process for commercial health plans, which could make it more difficult for us to price our products competitively. in addition, our optumhealth integrated care delivery business negotiates capitation arrangements with commercial third-party payers. under the typical capitation arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of a third-party payer's premiums to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the capitated member. if we fail to accurately predict, price for or manage the costs of providing care to our capitated members, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered, the cost of each service and the type of service rendered. our premium revenue on commercial policies is typically at a fixed rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to four months before the contract commences. our revenue on medicare policies is based on bids submitted in june the year before the contract year. although we base the premiums we charge and our medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period, many factors may cause actual costs to exceed those estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. these factors may include medical cost inflation, increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, natural catastrophes or other large-scale medical emergencies, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of essential benefits coverage) or other regulatory changes and insured population characteristics. relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. for example, if our 2013 medical costs for commercial insured products were 1% higher, without proportionally higher revenues from such products, our annual net earnings for 2013 would have been reduced by approximately $200 million, excluding any offsetting impact from premium rebates. in addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. these estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. if these estimates prove too low, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our business activities are highly regulated and new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we are regulated by federal, state and local governments in the united states and other countries where we do business. our insurance and hmo subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to the regulations of the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. for example, states require periodic financial reports and enforce minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations, and some of our activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including those relating to ppos, mcos, ur and tpa-related regulations and licensure requirements. some of our unitedhealthcare and optum businesses hold or provide services related to government contracts and are subject to u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. self-referral, anti-kickback, medical necessity, risk adjustment, false claims, and other laws and regulations governing government contractors and the use of government funds. in addition, under state guaranty fund laws, certain health, life and accident insurance companies and, in certain cases, hmos can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or lines of business in these states, which would expose our business to the risk of insolvency of a competitor in these states. certain of our businesses provide products or services to various government agencies. our relationships with these government agencies are subject to the terms of contracts that we hold with the agencies and to laws and regulations regarding government contracts. among others, certain laws and regulations restrict or prohibit companies from performing work for government agencies that might be viewed as an actual or potential conflict of interest. these laws may limit our ability to pursue and perform certain types of work, thereby materially and adversely affecting our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our optum businesses are also subject to regulations, which are distinct from those faced by our insurance and hmo subsidiaries, including, for example, fda regulations, state telemedicine regulations, debt collection laws, and state corporate practice of medicine doctrines and fee-splitting rules, some of which could impact our relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. additionally, we participate in the emerging private exchange markets and it is not yet known to what extent the 15 states will issue new regulations that apply to private exchanges. these risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted margins, or may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate. the laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change, and the integration into our businesses of entities that we acquire may affect the way in which existing laws and rules apply to us. the broad latitude given to the agencies administering, interpreting and enforcing current and future regulations governing our business could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, or expose us to increased liability in courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. we must also obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products, increase prices for certain regulated products, and complete certain acquisitions and dispositions or integrate certain acquisitions. for example, premium rates for our health insurance and/or managed care products are subject to regulatory review or approval in many states and by the federal government, and a number of states have enhanced (or are proposing to enhance) their rate review processes. additionally, the final market reform rules released in february 2013 require that we submit data on all proposed rate increases to hhs for monitoring purposes on many of our products. moreover, geographic and product expansions may be subject to state and federal regulatory approvals. delays in obtaining necessary approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain adequate approvals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. some of our businesses and operations are international in nature and consequently face political, economic, legal, compliance, regulatory, operational and other risks and exposures that are unique and vary by jurisdiction. the regulatory environments and associated requirements and uncertainties regarding tax, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, investment, capital (including minimum solvency margin and reserve requirements), management control, labor relations, fraud and corruption present compliance requirements and uncertainties for us that are different from those faced by u.s.-based businesses. we have acquired and may in the future acquire or commence additional businesses based outside of the united states. for example, our acquisition of amil subjects us to brazilian laws and regulations affecting the managed care and insurance industries, which vary from comparable u.s. laws and regulations, and to regulation by brazilian regulators, whose approach to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of industry regulations could differ from the approach taken by u.s. regulators. in addition, our non-u.s. businesses and operations are also subject to u.s. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of u.s.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. our failure to comply with u.s. or non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the united states or to establish constructive relations with non-u.s. regulators could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the health care industry is also regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of governmental investigations, adverse media coverage and political debate surrounding industry regulation, such as the implementation of health reform legislation and associated exchanges. negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation in various markets. health reform legislation could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct business and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. due to its complexity and ongoing implementation, health reform legislation's impact remains difficult to predict, is not yet fully known and could adversely affect us. for example, if we do not maintain certain minimum mlrs, we are required to rebate ratable portions of our premiums to our customers annually. beginning in 2014, commercial mlrs will need to factor in the effect of new premium stabilization provisions (risk adjustment, risk corridor and transitional reinsurance) for individual and small group markets. these factors, along with uncertainties in how mlr rules may be amended to address other changes required by health reform legislation, decrease the predictability of medical loss rebates. some state medicaid programs are also imposing mlr requirements on medicaid mcos, which generally require such plans to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their state customers if they cannot demonstrate they have met the minimum mlrs. depending on our calculations of the mlr for each of our plans and the manner in which we adjust our business model in light of these requirements, there could be meaningful disruptions in our market share, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. several states have indicated they may not expand their medicaid programs based on concerns over the costs of such programs when expanded federal funding is reduced starting in 2017. the extent to which states expand their medicaid programs, or discontinue current expansion programs, could adversely impact our medicaid enrollment levels, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. health reform legislation also includes a maintenance of effort (moe) provision that requires states to maintain their eligibility rules for adults covered by medicaid, until the secretary of hhs determines that an insurance exchange is operational in a given state, and for children covered by medicaid or chip, through the end of the 2019 federal fiscal year. 16 states with, or projecting, a budget deficit may apply for an exception to the moe provision. if states are successful in obtaining moe waivers and allow certain medicaid programs to expire, we could experience reduced medicaid enrollment, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, health reform legislation requires the establishment of state based health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers by 2014. the types of exchange participation requirements ultimately enacted by each state, the availability of federal subsidies for premiums and cost-sharing reductions within exchanges, the potential for differential imposition of state benefit mandates inside and outside the exchanges, the operation of reinsurance, risk corridors and risk adjustment mechanisms inside and outside the exchanges and the possibility that certain states may restrict the ability of health plans to continue to offer coverage to individuals and small employers outside of the exchanges could result in disruptions in local health care markets and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. health reform legislation also includes for 2014 specific reforms for the individual and small group marketplace, including guaranteed availability of coverage, adjusted community rating requirements (which include elimination of health status and gender rating factors), essential health benefit requirements (resulting in benefit changes for many members) and actuarial value requirements resulting in expanded benefits or reduced member cost sharing (or a combination of both) for many policyholders. these changes may lead to significant disruptions in local health care markets, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. further, while risk adjustment will apply to most individual and small group plans in the commercial markets beginning in 2014, the availability of transitional relief makes the full extent of its impact difficult to predict and could further disrupt underlying exchange risk pools, impact pricing and market strategies, and result in adverse consequences to the marketplace. while we have made certain assumptions in our premium rate development relating to projected risk adjustment transfers, actual risk adjustment calculations and transfers could materially differ from our assumptions. premium increases or benefit reductions will be necessary to offset health reform legislation's impact on our medical and operating costs. these premium increases are often subject to state regulatory approval, and the federal government is encouraging states to intensify their reviews of requests for rate increases by commercial health plans and providing funding to assist in those state-level reviews. if we are not able to secure approval for adequate premium increases to offset increases in our cost structure or if consumers forego coverage as a result of such premium increases, our margins, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, plans deemed to have a history of unreasonable rate increases may be prohibited from participating in the state-based exchanges that become active under health reform legislation in 2014. our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if fewer individuals gain coverage under health reform legislation than we expect, if we are unable to attract these new individuals to our unitedhealthcare offerings, or if the demand for health reform legislation related products and capabilities offered by our optum businesses is less than anticipated. as a result of our participation in various government health care programs, both as a payer and as a service provider to payers, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments, audits and government investigations that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we participate in various federal, state and local government health care coverage programs, including as a payer in medicare advantage, medicare part d, various medicaid programs, chip and our tricare west region contract with the dod, and receive substantial revenues from these programs. we also provide services to payers through our optum businesses. a reduction or less than expected increase, or a protracted delay, in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies, or, as is a typical feature of many government contracts, termination of the contract for the convenience of the government, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the government health care programs in which we participate generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible for coverage, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, reduce our participation in certain service areas or markets, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. revenues for these programs depend on periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. funding for these government programs depends on many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level. for example, cms has in the past reduced or frozen medicare advantage benchmarks and additional cuts to medicare advantage benchmarks are expected in the next few years. in addition, from time to time, cms makes changes to the way it calculates medicare advantage risk adjustment payments. for 2014, cms has asked plans to submit additional information indicating whether or not medical conditions were diagnosed in a clinical setting. cms has indicated that it will publish further guidance on the treatment of risk adjustment data in early 2015, including with respect to diagnoses made during risk assessments, that may change the way in which medicare advantage payments are determined. although 17 we have adjusted members' benefits and premiums on a selective basis, ceased to offer benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to the benchmark reductions and other funding pressures, these or other strategies may not fully address the funding pressures in the medicare advantage program. in addition, payers in the medicare advantage program may be subject to reductions in payments from cms as a result of decreased funding or recoupment pursuant to government audit. under the medicaid managed care program, state medicaid agencies are periodically required by federal law to seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care medicaid health programs. if we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state medicaid managed care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those medicaid plans. under the medicare part d program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a regional benchmark, which is calculated by the government after all regional bids are submitted. if the enrollee premium is not below the government benchmark, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. in general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, and other factors. in the event any of these assumptions are materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the medicare program or other programs on which we bid, or our competitors submit bids at lower rates than our bids, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. many of the government health care coverage programs in which we participate are subject to the prior satisfaction of certain conditions or performance standards or benchmarks. for example, as part of health reform legislation, cms has a system that provides various quality bonus payments to plans that meet certain quality star ratings at the local plan level. in addition, under health reform legislation, congress authorized cms and the states to implement mme managed care demonstration programs to serve dually eligible beneficiaries to improve the coordination of their care. health plan participation in these demonstration programs is subject to cms approval of specified care delivery models and the satisfaction of conditions to participation, including meeting certain performance requirements. any changes in standards or care delivery models that apply to government health care programs, including medicare, medicaid and the mme demonstration programs for dually eligible beneficiaries, or our inability to improve our quality scores and star ratings to meet government performance requirements or to match the performance of our competitors could result in limitations to our participation in or exclusion from these or other government programs, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. cms uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for medicare programs, including adjusting monthly capitation payments to medicare advantage plans and medicare part d plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers for medicare advantage plans, as well as, for medicare part d plans, risk-sharing provisions based on a comparison of costs predicted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs. some state medicaid programs utilize a similar process. for example, our unitedhealthcare medicare &amp; retirement and unitedhealthcare community &amp; state businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to cms or state agencies for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. cms and the office of inspector general for hhs periodically perform risk adjustment data validation (radv) audits of selected medicare health plans to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers, and certain of our local plans have been selected for audit. such audits have in the past resulted and could in the future result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans, fines, corrective action plans or other adverse action by cms. in february 2012, cms published a final radv audit and payment adjustment methodology. the methodology contains provisions allowing retroactive contract level payment adjustments for the year audited, beginning with 2011 payments, using an extrapolation of the error rate identified in audit samples and, for medicare advantage plans, after considering a fee-for-service error rate adjuster that will be used in determining the payment adjustment. depending on the error rate found in those audits, if any, potential payment adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we have been and may in the future become involved in routine, regular, and special governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments. certain of our businesses have been reviewed or are currently under review, including for, among other matters, compliance with coding and other requirements under the medicare risk-adjustment model. such investigations, audits or reviews sometimes arise out of or prompt claims by private litigants or whistleblowers that, among other allegations, we failed to disclose certain business practices or, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government. governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments could lead to government actions, which could result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 18 if we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security, and data laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information are regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers. these laws, rules and requirements are subject to change. compliance with new privacy and security laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain or require us to alter our business model or operations. for example, the hitech amendments to hipaa may further restrict our ability to collect, disclose and use sensitive personal information and may impose additional compliance requirements on our business. while we have prepared for the transition to icd-10 as a hipaa-regulated entity, if unforeseen circumstances arise, it is possible that we could be exposed to investigations and allegations of noncompliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, if some providers continue to use icd-9 codes on claims after october 1, 2014, we will have to reject such claims, which may lead to claim resubmissions, increased call volume and provider and customer dissatisfaction. further, providers may use icd-10 codes differently than they used icd-9 codes in the past, which could result in lost revenues under risk adjustment. during the transition to icd-10, certain claims processing and payment information we have historically used to establish our reserves may not be reliable or available in a timely manner. many of our businesses are also subject to the payment card industry data security standard, which is a multifaceted security standard that is designed to protect credit card account data as mandated by payment card industry entities. hipaa also requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. while we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. several of our businesses act as business associates to their covered entity customers and as a result, they collect, use, disclose and maintain sensitive personal information in order to provide services to these customers. hhs has announced that it will continue its audit program to assess hipaa compliance efforts by covered entities and expand it to include business associates. an audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows . through our optum businesses, including our optum labs business, we maintain a database of administrative and clinical data that is statistically de-identified in accordance with hipaa standards. noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business, including mandatory disclosure to the media, loss of existing or new customers, significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents, and material fines, penalties and litigation awards, among other consequences, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our businesses providing pbm services face regulatory and other risks and uncertainties associated with the pbm industry that may differ from the risks of our business of providing managed care and health insurance products . we provide pbm services through our optumrx and unitedhealthcare businesses. each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern the relationships of the business with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies, customers and consumers. optumrx also conducts business as a mail order pharmacy and specialty pharmacy, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially and adversely affect current industry practices, including the receipt or disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies, and the use of average wholesale prices. our pbm businesses would be materially and adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and other suppliers, and could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our mail order or specialty pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. disruptions at any of our mail order or specialty pharmacies due to an accident or an event that is beyond our control could affect our ability to process and dispense prescriptions in a timely manner and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, our pbm businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to erisa. the dol, which is the agency that enforces erisa, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pbm businesses even where our pbm businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. in the event a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply to our pbm businesses in connection with services for which our pbm businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or claims that we entered into certain prohibited transactions. 19 if we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our businesses compete throughout the united states and face significant competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. in particular markets, our competitors, compared to us, may have greater capabilities, resources or market share; a more established reputation; superior supplier or health care professional arrangements; better existing business relationships; or other factors that give such competitors a competitive advantage. in addition, our competitive position may be adversely affected by significant merger and acquisition activity that has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both among our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other care professionals). consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase our customer base, improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or maintain or increase profitability. our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect or declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. we contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other health care providers for services. our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to contract for these services at competitive prices. any failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain activities related to network design, provider participation in networks and provider payments could result in disputes that may be costly, distract managements' attention and result in negative publicity. in any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. in addition, accountable care organizations, practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other care providers choose may change the way in which these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape. such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which could adversely affect our operations, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows by impacting our relationships with these providers or affecting the way that we price our products and estimate our costs, which might require us to incur costs to change our operations. in addition, if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. we have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the health care provider. to the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider under the capitation arrangement. further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts could result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. health care providers with whom we contract may not properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. in those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. in some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances, the amount is either not defined or is established by a standard that does not clearly specify dollar terms. in some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. the success of certain businesses, including optumhealth integrated care delivery and amil, depend on maintaining satisfactory physician relationships. the primary care physicians that practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician 20 organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. there is and will likely be heightened competition in the markets where we operate to acquire or manage physician practices or to employ or contract with individual physicians. if we are unable to maintain or grow satisfactory relationships with primary care physicians, or to acquire, recruit or, in some instances, employ physicians, or to retain enrollees following the departure of a physician, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, our affiliated physician organizations contract with health insurance and hmo competitors of unitedhealthcare. our business could suffer if our affiliated physician organizations fail to maintain relationships with these health insurance or hmo companies, or to adequately price their contracts with these third party payers. in addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and certain health care providers are customers of our optum businesses. given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. because of the nature of our business, we are routinely subject to various litigation actions, which could damage our reputation and, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. because of the nature of our business, we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to, among other matters, the design, management and delivery of our product and service offerings. these matters have included or could in the future include claims related to health care benefits coverage and payment (including disputes with enrollees, customers, and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort (including claims related to the delivery of health care services, such as medical malpractice by health care practitioners who are employed by us, have contractual relationships with us, or serve as providers to our managed care networks), contract and labor disputes, tax claims and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. we are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups and consumers. in addition, we periodically acquire businesses or commence operations in jurisdictions outside of the united states, where contractual rights, tax positions and applicable regulations may be subject to interpretation or uncertainty to a greater degree than in the united states, and therefore subject to dispute by customers, government authorities or others. we are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. although we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. although we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters, it is possible that the level of actual losses will significantly exceed the liabilities recorded. we cannot predict the outcome of significant legal actions in which we are involved and are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. the legal actions we face or may face in the future could further increase our cost of doing business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain legal actions could result in adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our ability to retain our current business or grow our market share in select markets and businesses. any failure by us to manage successfully our strategic alliances or complete, manage or integrate acquisitions and other significant strategic transactions or relationships could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. for example, we have a strategic alliance with aarp under which we provide aarp-branded medicare supplement insurance to aarp members and other aarp-branded products and services to medicare beneficiaries. if we fail to meet the needs of our alliance or joint venture partners, including by developing additional products and services, providing high levels of service, pricing our products and services competitively or responding effectively to applicable federal and state regulatory changes, our alliances and joint ventures could be damaged or terminated, which in turn could adversely impact our reputation, business and results of operations. further, if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. for acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations, including our internal control environment, which may present challenges that are different from those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult for us to manage. if we are unable to successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 21 as we continue to expand our business outside the united states, acquired non-u.s. businesses, such as amil, will present challenges that are different from those presented by acquisitions of domestic businesses, including challenges in adapting to new markets, business, labor and cultural practices and regulatory environments that are different from those with which we are familiar in our u.s. operations. adapting to these challenges could require us to devote significant senior management and other resources to the acquired businesses before we realize anticipated benefits or synergies from the acquired businesses. these challenges vary widely by country and may include political instability, government intervention, discriminatory regulation, and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that could prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which our acquired businesses operate or converting local currencies that we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies. if we are unable to manage successfully our non-u.s. acquisitions, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our shareholders' equity from period to period, which could adversely affect our debt to debt-plus-equity ratio, and our future revenues, costs and cash flows from international operations. any measures we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies may be costly or ineffective. our sales performance will suffer if we do not adequately attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent producers and consultants. our products and services are sold in part through independent producers and consultants who assist in the sales and servicing of our business. we typically do not have long-term contracts with our producers and consultants, who generally do not provide services to us exclusively, but instead typically also market health care products and services of our competitors. as a result, we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. our sales would be materially and adversely affected if we were unable to attract or retain independent producers and consultants or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to them regarding our product portfolio, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. producer commissions will be under the same cost reduction pressures as other administrative costs. for example, such commissions are included as administrative expenses under mlr requirements of health reform legislation and, therefore, are not included in the minimum mlr calculation. our relationships with producers could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in our business practices and the nature of our relationships to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commissions. a number of investigations have been conducted regarding the marketing practices of producers selling health care products and the payments they receive. these have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and producers marketing and selling those companies' products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans, which could materially and adversely impact our ability to market our products. unfavorable economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. unfavorable economic conditions may impact demand for certain of our products and services. for example, high unemployment rates have caused and could continue to cause lower enrollment or lower rates of renewal in our employer group plans and our non-employer individual plans. unfavorable economic conditions have also caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. in addition, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact our ability to increase premiums or result in the cancellation by certain customers of our products and services. all of these could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. during a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including medicare, medicaid and chip. a reduction in state medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to apply to payments already negotiated and/or received from the government and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the affected governments to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and hmos and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims. any of these developments or actions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. a prolonged unfavorable economic environment also could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could materially and adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or materially and adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. further, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the customers of our optum businesses, including health plans, hmos, hospitals, care providers, employers and others, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect optum's financial results. 22 our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which comprise the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of december 31, 2013. relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have adversely impacted our investment income, and the continuation of the current low interest rate environment could further adversely affect our investment income. in addition, a delay in payment of principal and/or interest by issuers, or defaults by issuers (primarily from investments in corporate and municipal bonds), could reduce our net investment income and require us to write down the value of our investments, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability and shareholders' equity. there can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than their carrying values. changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, changes in issuer financial conditions, illiquidity or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our shareholders' equity. in addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, such an action could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of regulated subsidiaries. if the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, shareholders' equity and credit ratings could be materially and adversely affected. goodwill and other intangible assets were $35.4 billion as of december 31, 2013, representing 43% of our total consolidated assets. we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. for example, the manner in or the extent to which health reform legislation is implemented may impact our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets in our business. similarly, the value of our goodwill may be materially and adversely impacted if businesses that we acquire perform in a manner that is inconsistent with our assumptions. in addition, from time to time we divest businesses, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders' equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. a material decrease in shareholders' equity could, in turn, adversely impact our credit ratings and potentially impact our compliance with the covenants in our bank credit facilities. if we fail to maintain properly the integrity or availability of our data or successfully consolidate, integrate, upgrade or expand our existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our ability to price adequately our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to report accurately our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we periodically consolidate, integrate, upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, and changing customer patterns. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses is found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, experience problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, become subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. there can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to protect, consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our businesses sell and install hardware and software products that may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. connectivity among competing technologies is becoming increasingly important in the health care industry. a failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 23 uncertain and rapidly evolving u.s. federal and state, non-u.s. and international laws and regulations related to the health information technology market may present compliance challenges and could materially and adversely affect the configuration of our information systems and platforms, and our ability to compete in this market. we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences if we sustain cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents, that result in security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the unintended dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information. we routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data in our operations, including sensitive personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or a third-party. we may be subject to breaches of the information technology systems we use for these purposes. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our layered security controls and misappropriate or compromise sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. they also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. our facilities may also be vulnerable to security incidents or security attacks; acts of vandalism or theft; coordinated attacks by activist entities; misplaced or lost data; human errors; or other similar events that could negatively affect our systems and our and our customer's data. the costs to eliminate or address the foregoing security threats and vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary information or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose our customers' private information and our customers to the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. if we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases, software and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our ability to obtain funds from some of our subsidiaries is restricted and if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations, financial position and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from some of our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. many of these subsidiaries are regulated by departments of insurance or similar regulatory authorities outside the united states such as the ans in brazil. we are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium revenues generated by the applicable subsidiary. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from us. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. an inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies in the desired amounts or at the time of our choosing could adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, as well as our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment cycle, repurchase shares of our common stock and repay our debt. if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. any downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. claims paying ability, financial strength, and credit ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically. our ratings reflect each credit rating agency's 24 opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. there can be no assurance that our current credit ratings will be maintained in the future. downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, could materially increase our costs of or ability to access funds in the debt and capital markets and otherwise materially increase our operating costs. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risks are exposures to (a) changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and interest expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt, (b) foreign currency exchange rate risk of the u.s. dollar primarily to the brazilian real and (c) changes in equity prices that impact the value of our equity investments. as of december 31, 2013 , we had $8.7 billion of cash, cash equivalents and investments on which the interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may materially impact our investment income. also, $9.6 billion of our commercial paper, debt and deposit liabilities as of december 31, 2013 were at interest rates that vary with market rates, either directly or through the use of related interest rate swap contracts. the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. as of december 31, 2013 , $18.5 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities and $10.2 billion of our debt was non-swapped fixed-rate term debt. an increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. we manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed income market sectors and debt across maturities, as well as by endeavoring to match our floating-rate assets and liabilities over time, either directly or periodically through the use of interest rate swap contracts. the following table summarizes the impact of hypothetical changes in market interest rates across the entire yield curve by 1% or 2% as of december 31, 2013 on our investment income and interest expense per annum, and the fair value of our investments and debt (in millions, except percentages): december 31, 2013 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of investments (b) fair value of debt 2 % $ 175 $ 189 $ (1,474 ) $ (1,786 ) 1 87 95 (756 ) (974 ) (1) (52 ) (17 ) 704 1,167 (2) nm nm 1,224 2,505 december 31, 2012 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of investments (b) fair value of debt 2 % $ 189 $ 134 $ (1,303 ) $ (2,200 ) 1 94 67 (656 ) (1,194 ) (1) (18 ) (14 ) 518 1,366 (2) nm nm 686 2,747 nm = not meaningful (a) given the low absolute level of short-term market rates on our floating-rate assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, the assumed hypothetical change in interest rates does not reflect the full 100 basis point reduction in interest income or interest expense as the rate cannot fall below zero and thus the 200 basis point reduction is not meaningful. (b) as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, some of our investments had interest rates below 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in the fair value of investments does not reflect the full 200 basis point reduction. we have an exposure to changes in the value of the brazilian real to the u.s. dollar in translation of amil's operating results at the average exchange rate over the accounting period, and amil's assets and liabilities at the spot rate at the end of the accounting period. the gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements into u.s. dollars are included in shareholders' equity and comprehensive income. an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real reduces the carrying value of the net assets denominated in brazilian real. for example, as of december 31, 2013 , a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against the 48 brazilian real would have caused a reduction in net assets of approximately $490 million. we manage exposure to foreign currency risk by conducting our international business operations primarily in their functional currencies. as of december 31, 2013 , we had $1.6 billion of investments in equity securities, consisting of investments in non-u.s. dollar fixed-income funds, employee savings plan related investments, private equity funds, and dividend paying stocks. valuations in non-us dollar funds are subject to foreign exchange rates. valuations in private equity are subject to conditions affecting health care and technology stocks, and dividend paying equities are subject to more general market conditions. 49risk factors 14 risk factors cautionary statements the statements, estimates, projections or outlook contained in this annual report on form 10-k include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (pslra). when used in this annual report on form 10-k and in future filings by us with the sec, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, forecast, plan, project, should or similar words or phrases are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. these statements are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the pslra. these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this report and, except as required by law; we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date of this report. the following discussion contains cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. we do not undertake to address in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations how any of these factors may have caused our results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. in addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. any or all forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors discussed below will be important in determining our future results. by their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. if we fail to estimate, price for and manage our medical costs in an effective manner, the profitability of our risk-based products and services could decline and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. through our risk-based benefit products, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. premium revenues from risk-based benefits products comprise nearly 90% of our total consolidated revenues. we generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. the profitability of our products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and effectively manage medical costs. in this regard, health reform legislation established minimum mlrs for certain health plans and authorized hhs to maintain an annual price increase review process for commercial health plans, which could make it more difficult for us to increase the prices of our products. in addition, our optumhealth local care delivery business negotiates capitation arrangements with commercial third-party payers. under the typical capitation arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of a third-party payer's premiums to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the capitated member. if we fail to predict accurately, price for or manage the costs of providing care to our capitated members, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 14 table of contents we manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered, the cost of each service and the type of service rendered. our premium revenue on commercial policies is typically at a fixed monthly rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to four months before the contract commences. our revenue on medicare policies is based on bids submitted in june the year before the contract year. although we base the premiums we charge and our medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period, many factors may cause actual costs to exceed those estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. these factors may include medical cost inflation, increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, natural catastrophes or other large-scale medical emergencies, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly drugs, treatments and technology, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of essential benefits coverage) or other regulatory changes and insured population characteristics. relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. for example, if our 2014 medical costs for commercial insured products were 1% higher, without proportionally higher revenues from such products, our annual net earnings for 2014 would have been reduced by approximately $190 million, excluding any offsetting impact from premium rebates due to minimum mlrs. in addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. these estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. if these estimates prove too low, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our business activities are highly regulated and new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially and adversely affect our business. we are regulated by federal, state and local governments in the united states and other countries where we do business. our insurance and hmo subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. for example, states require periodic financial reports and enforce minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations, and some of our activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including those relating to ppos, mcos, ur and tpa-related regulations and licensure requirements. some of our unitedhealthcare and optum businesses hold or provide services related to government contracts and are subject to u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. self-referral, anti-kickback, medical necessity, risk adjustment, false claims, and other laws and regulations governing government contractors and the use of government funds. in addition, under state guaranty fund laws, certain insurance companies can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or similar lines of business. any such assessment could expose our insurance entities to the risk of paying a portion of an insolvent insurance company's claims through state guaranty association assessments in future periods. certain of our businesses provide products or services to various government agencies. our relationships with these government agencies are subject to the terms of contracts that we hold with the agencies and to laws and regulations regarding government contracts. among others, certain laws and regulations restrict or prohibit companies from performing work for government agencies that might be viewed as an actual or potential conflict of interest. these laws may limit our ability to pursue and perform certain types of work, thereby materially and adversely affecting our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our optum businesses are also subject to regulations, which are distinct from those faced by our insurance and hmo subsidiaries, including, for example, fda regulations, state telemedicine regulations, debt collection laws, banking regulations, distributor and producer licensing requirements, state corporate practice of medicine doctrines, fee-splitting rules, health care facility licensure and certificate of need requirements, some of which could impact our relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. these risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted margins, or may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate. the laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change, and the integration into our businesses of entities that we acquire may affect the way in which existing laws and rules apply to us, including subjecting us to laws and rules that did not previously apply to us. the broad latitude given to the agencies administering, interpreting and enforcing current and future regulations governing our business could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, or expose us to increased liability in courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. we must also obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products, increase prices for certain regulated products, and complete certain acquisitions and dispositions or integrate certain acquisitions. for example, premium rates for our health insurance and managed care products are subject to regulatory review or approval in many states and by the federal government. additionally, we must submit data on all proposed rate increases to hhs for monitoring purposes on many of our products. geographic and product expansions may be subject to state and federal regulatory approvals. delays in obtaining 15 table of contents necessary approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain adequate approvals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. some of our businesses operate internationally and consequently face political, economic, legal, compliance, regulatory, operational and other risks and exposures that are unique and vary by jurisdiction. the regulatory environments and associated requirements and uncertainties regarding tax, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, investment, capital (including minimum solvency margin and reserve requirements), management control, labor relations, fraud and corruption present compliance requirements and uncertainties for us that are different from those faced by u.s.-based businesses. we have acquired and may in the future acquire or commence additional businesses based outside of the united states, which may subject us to foreign and u.s.-based laws specific to the products and services we acquire or develop outside of the united states. for example, our amil business subjects us to brazilian laws and regulations affecting the managed care and insurance industries, which vary from comparable u.s. laws and regulations, and to regulation by brazilian regulators, whose approach to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of industry regulations could differ from the approach taken by u.s. regulators. in addition, our non-u.s. businesses and operations are also subject to u.s. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of u.s.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the fcpa. our failure to comply with u.s. or non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the united states or to establish constructive relations with non-u.s. regulators could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted operating margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the health care industry is also regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of governmental investigations, adverse media coverage and political debate surrounding industry regulation, such as health reform legislation and associated exchanges. negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation in various markets. health reform legislation could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct business and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. due to its complexity, ongoing implementation and continued legal challenges, health reform legislation's full impact remains difficult to predict and could adversely affect us. for example, health reform legislation includes specific reforms for the individual and small group marketplace, including guaranteed availability of coverage, adjusted community rating requirements (which include elimination of health status and gender rating factors), essential health benefit requirements (resulting in benefit changes for many members) and actuarial value requirements resulting in expanded benefits or reduced member cost sharing (or a combination of both) for many policyholders. in addition, if we do not maintain certain minimum loss ratios, we are required to rebate ratable portions of our premiums to our customers. these changes can cause significant disruptions in local health care markets and adjustments to our business, all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. health reform legislation required the establishment of health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers and requires insurers participating on the health insurance exchanges to offer a minimum level of benefits and includes guidelines on setting premium rates and coverage limitations. while risk adjustment applies to most individual and small group plans in the commercial markets, actual risk adjustment calculations and transfers could materially differ from our assumptions. our participation in these exchanges involves uncertainties associated with mix and volume of business and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, pending legal challenges to the availability of tax subsidies to participants in federal exchange marketplaces could significantly disrupt the health insurance market and negatively affect our business. our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if fewer individuals gain coverage under health reform legislation than we expect, if we are unable to attract these new individuals to our unitedhealthcare offerings, or if the demand for health reform legislation related products and capabilities offered by our optum businesses is less than anticipated. as a result of our participation in various government health care programs, both as a payer and as a service provider to payers, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments, audits and government investigations that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we participate in various federal, state and local government health care benefit programs, including as a payer in medicare advantage, medicare part d, various medicaid programs, chip and our tricare west region contract with the dod, and receive substantial revenues from these programs. certain of our optum businesses also provide services to payers participating in government health care programs. a reduction or less than expected increase, or a protracted delay, in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies, or, as is a typical feature of many government contracts, termination of the contract for the convenience of the government, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 16 table of contents the government health care programs in which we participate generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible for coverage, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, reduce our participation in certain service areas or markets, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. revenues for these programs depend on periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. funding for these government programs depends on many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level. for example, cms has in the past reduced or frozen medicare advantage benchmarks and additional cuts to medicare advantage benchmarks are possible. in addition, from time to time, cms makes changes to the way it calculates medicare advantage risk adjustment payments. for 2014, cms asked plans to submit additional information indicating whether or not medical conditions were diagnosed in a clinical setting. cms has indicated that it will publish further guidance on the treatment of risk adjustment data in early 2015. although we have adjusted members' benefits and premiums on a selective basis, ceased to offer benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to the benchmark reductions and other funding pressures, these or other strategies may not fully address the funding pressures in the medicare advantage program. in addition, payers in the medicare advantage program may be subject to reductions in payments from cms as a result of decreased funding or recoupment pursuant to government audit. under the medicaid managed care program, state medicaid agencies seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care medicaid health programs. if we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state medicaid managed care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those medicaid plans. under the medicare part d program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a regional benchmark, which is calculated by the government after all regional bids are submitted. if the enrollee premium is not below the government benchmark, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. in general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, and other factors. in the event any of these assumptions is materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the programs on which we bid, or submission by our competitors at lower rates than our bids, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. many of the government health care coverage programs in which we participate are subject to the prior satisfaction of certain conditions or performance standards or benchmarks. for example, as part of health reform legislation, cms has a system that provides various quality bonus payments to plans that meet certain quality star ratings at the local plan level. the star rating system considers various measures adopted by cms, including, among other things, quality of care, preventative services, chronic illness management and customer satisfaction. beginning in 2015, plans must have a rating of four stars or higher to qualify for bonus payments. if we do not maintain or continue to improve our star ratings, our plans may not be eligible for quality bonuses and we may experience a negative impact on our revenues and the benefits that our plans can offer, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, under health reform legislation, congress authorized cms and the states to implement mmp managed care demonstration programs to serve dually eligible beneficiaries to improve the coordination of their care. health plan participation in these demonstration programs is subject to cms approval of specified care delivery models and the satisfaction of conditions to participation, including meeting certain performance requirements. any changes in standards or care delivery models that apply to government health care programs, including medicare, medicaid and the mmp demonstration programs for dually eligible beneficiaries, or our inability to improve our quality scores and star ratings to meet government performance requirements or to match the performance of our competitors could result in limitations to our participation in or exclusion from these or other government programs, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. cms uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for medicare programs, including adjusting monthly capitation payments to medicare advantage plans and medicare part d plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers for medicare advantage plans, as well as, for medicare part d plans, risk-sharing provisions based on a comparison of costs predicted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs. some state medicaid programs utilize a similar process. for example, our unitedhealthcare medicare &amp; retirement and unitedhealthcare community &amp; state businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to cms or state agencies for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. cms and the office of inspector general for hhs periodically perform risk adjustment data validation (radv) audits of selected medicare health plans to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers, and certain of our local plans have been selected for audit. such audits have in the past resulted and could in the future result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans, fines, corrective action plans or other adverse action by cms. in february 2012, cms published a final radv audit and payment adjustment methodology. the methodology contains provisions allowing retroactive contract level payment adjustments for the year audited, beginning with 2011 payments, using an extrapolation of the error rate identified in audit samples and, for medicare advantage plans, after considering a fee-for-service error rate adjuster that will be used in 17 table of contents determining the payment adjustment. depending on the error rate found in those audits, if any, potential payment adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we have been and may in the future become involved in routine, regular, and special governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments. certain of our businesses have been reviewed or are currently under review, including for compliance with coding and other requirements under the medicare risk-adjustment model. such investigations, audits or reviews sometimes arise out of or prompt claims by private litigants or whistleblowers that, among other allegations, we failed to disclose certain business practices or, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government. governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments could lead to government actions, which could result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. if we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security, and data laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information are regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers. these laws, rules and requirements are subject to change. compliance with new privacy and security laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain or require us to alter our business model or operations. for example, the hitech amendments to hipaa imposed further restrictions on our ability to collect, disclose and use sensitive personal information and imposed additional compliance requirements on our business. while we have prepared for the transition to icd-10 as a hipaa-regulated entity, if unforeseen circumstances arise, it is possible that we could be exposed to investigations and allegations of noncompliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, if some providers continue to use icd-9 codes on claims after october 1, 2015, we will have to reject such claims, which may lead to claim resubmissions, increased call volume and provider and customer dissatisfaction. further, providers may use icd-10 codes differently than they used icd-9 codes in the past, which could result in lost revenues under risk adjustment. during the transition to icd-10, certain claims processing and payment information we have historically used to establish our reserves may not be reliable or available in a timely manner. many of our businesses are also subject to the payment card industry data security standard, which is a multifaceted security standard that is designed to protect credit card account data as mandated by payment card industry entities. hipaa requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. while we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. several of our businesses act as business associates to their covered entity customers and, as a result, collect, use, disclose and maintain sensitive personal information in order to provide services to these customers. hhs has announced that it will continue its audit program to assess hipaa compliance efforts by covered entities and expand it to include business associates. an audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. through our optum businesses, including our optum labs business, we maintain a database of administrative and clinical data that is statistically de-identified in accordance with hipaa standards. noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business, including mandatory disclosure to the media, loss of existing or new customers, significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents, and material fines, penalties and litigation awards, among other consequences, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our businesses providing pbm services face regulatory and other risks and uncertainties associated with the pbm industry that may differ from the risks of our business of providing managed care and health insurance products . we provide pbm services through our optumrx and unitedhealthcare businesses. each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern the relationships of the business with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies, customers and consumers. optumrx also conducts business as a home delivery pharmacy and specialty pharmacy, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially and adversely affect current industry practices, including the receipt or disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies, and the use of average wholesale prices. 18 table of contents our pbm businesses would be materially and adversely affected by our inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and other suppliers, and could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our home delivery or specialty pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. disruptions at any of our home delivery or specialty pharmacies due to an accident or an event that is beyond our control could affect our ability to process and dispense prescriptions in a timely manner and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, our pbm businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to erisa. the dol, which is the agency that enforces erisa, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pbm businesses even where our pbm businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. in the event a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply to our pbm businesses in connection with services for which our pbm businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or claims that we entered into certain prohibited transactions. if we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our businesses compete throughout the united states, brazil and other foreign markets and face significant competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. in particular markets, our competitors, compared to us, may have greater capabilities, resources or market share; a more established reputation; superior supplier or health care professional arrangements; better existing business relationships; lower profit margin or financial return expectations; or other factors that give such competitors a competitive advantage. in addition, our competitive position may be adversely affected by significant merger and acquisition activity that has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both among our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other care professionals). consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase our customer base, improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or maintain or increase profitability. additionally, new direct to consumer business models from competing businesses may make it more difficult for us to directly engage consumers in the selection and management of their health care benefits, health care usage, and in the effective navigation of the health care system we may be challenged by new technologies and market entrants that could disrupt our existing relationship with health plan enrollees in these areas. our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect or declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals and other service providers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other service providers at competitive prices. any failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain activities related to network design, provider participation in networks and provider payments could result in disputes that may be costly, distract managements' attention and result in negative publicity. in any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. in addition, accountable care organizations; practice management companies (which are companies that aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency); and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other care providers choose may change the way in which these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape. such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which could adversely affect our operations, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows by impacting our relationships with these providers or affecting the way that we price our products and estimate our costs, which might require us to incur costs to change our operations. in addition, if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. we have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and 19 table of contents medical care resources of the health care provider. to the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider, under the capitation arrangement. further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts could result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. health care providers with whom we contract may not properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. in those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. in some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances, the amount is either not defined or is established by a standard that does not clearly specify dollar terms. in some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. the success of certain businesses, including optumhealth local care delivery and amil, depend on maintaining satisfactory physician employment relationships. the primary care physicians that practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. there is and will likely be heightened competition in the markets where we operate to acquire or manage physician practices or to employ or contract with individual physicians. if we are unable to maintain or grow satisfactory relationships with primary care physicians, or to acquire, recruit or, in some instances, employ physicians, or to retain enrollees following the departure of a physician, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, our affiliated physician organizations contract with health insurance and hmo competitors of unitedhealthcare. our business could suffer if our affiliated physician organizations fail to maintain relationships with these health insurance or hmo companies, or adequately price their contracts with these third-party payers. in addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and certain health care providers are customers of our optum businesses. given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we are routinely subject to various litigation actions due to the nature of our business, which could damage our reputation and, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties or monetary damages and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to, among other matters, the design, management and delivery of our product and service offerings. these matters have included or could in the future include matters related to health care benefits coverage and payment claims (including disputes with enrollees, customers, and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort claims (including claims related to the delivery of health care services, such as medical malpractice by health care practitioners who are employed by us, have contractual relationships with us, or serve as providers to our managed care networks), whistleblower claims (including claims under the false claims act or similar statutes), contract and labor disputes, tax claims and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. we are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups and consumers. in addition, we operate in jurisdictions outside of the united states, where contractual rights, tax positions and applicable regulations may be subject to interpretation or uncertainty to a greater degree than in the united states, and therefore subject to dispute by customers, government authorities or others. we are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. although we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. although we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters, it is possible that the level of actual losses will significantly exceed the liabilities recorded. we cannot predict the outcome of significant legal actions in which we are involved and are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. the legal actions we face or may face in the future could further increase our cost of doing business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain legal actions could result in adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our ability to retain our current business or grow our market share in some markets and businesses. 20 table of contents any failure by us to manage successfully our strategic alliances or complete, manage or integrate acquisitions and other significant strategic transactions or relationships could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. for example, we have a strategic alliance with aarp under which we provide aarp-branded medicare supplement insurance to aarp members and other aarp-branded products and services to medicare beneficiaries. if we fail to meet the needs of our alliance or joint venture partners, including by developing additional products and services, providing high levels of service, pricing our products and services competitively or responding effectively to applicable federal and state regulatory changes, our alliances and joint ventures could be damaged or terminated, which in turn could adversely impact our reputation, business and results of operations. further, if we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. success in completing acquisitions is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations, including our internal control environment, or otherwise leveraging its operations, which may present challenges that are different from those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult for us to manage. if we cannot successfully integrate these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue growth opportunities and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. as we expand and operate our business outside of the united states, we are presented with challenges that differ from those presented by acquisitions of domestic businesses, including challenges in adapting to new markets, business, labor and cultural practices and regulatory environments. adapting to these challenges could require us to devote significant senior management and other resources to the acquired businesses before we realize anticipated synergies or other benefits from the acquired businesses. these challenges vary widely by country and may include political instability, government intervention, discriminatory regulation, and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that could prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which our acquired businesses operate or converting local currencies that we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies. if we are unable to manage successfully our non-u.s. acquisitions, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our shareholders' equity from period to period, which could adversely affect our debt to debt-plus-equity ratio, and our future revenues, costs and cash flows from international operations. any measures we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies may be costly or ineffective. our sales performance will suffer if we do not adequately attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent producers and consultants. our products and services are sold in part through independent producers and consultants with whom we do not have exclusive contracts and for whose services and allegiance we must compete intensely. our sales would be materially and adversely affected if we were unable to attract, retain and support such independent producers and consultants or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. our relationships with producers could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in our business practices and the nature of our relationships to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commissions. a number of investigations have been conducted regarding the marketing practices of producers selling health care products and the payments they receive and have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and producers marketing and selling those companies' products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans, which could materially and adversely impact our ability to market our products. unfavorable economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. unfavorable economic conditions may impact demand for certain of our products and services. for example, high unemployment can cause lower enrollment or lower rates of renewal in our employer group plans and our non-employer individual plans. unfavorable economic conditions have also caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. in addition, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact our ability to increase premiums or result in the cancellation by certain customers of our products and services. these conditions could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. during a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including 21 table of contents medicare, medicaid and chip. a reduction in state medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to apply to payments already negotiated or received from the government and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the affected governments to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and hmos and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims. any of these developments or actions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. a prolonged unfavorable economic environment also could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could materially and adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or materially and adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. further, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the customers of our optum businesses, including health plans, hmos, hospitals, care providers, employers and others, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect optum's financial results. our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which constitute the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of december 31, 2014 . relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have adversely impacted our investment income, and the continuation of the current low interest rate environment could further adversely affect our investment income. in addition, a delay in payment of principal or interest by issuers, or defaults by issuers (primarily from investments in corporate and municipal bonds), could reduce our net investment income and require us to write down the value of our investments, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability and shareholders' equity. there can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than their carrying values. changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, changes in issuer financial conditions, illiquidity or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our shareholders' equity. in addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, such an action could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of regulated subsidiaries. if the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, shareholders' equity and credit ratings could be materially and adversely affected. as of december 31, 2014 , goodwill and other intangible assets had a carrying value of $36.6 billion , representing 42% of our total consolidated assets. we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. the value of our goodwill may be materially and adversely impacted if businesses that we acquire perform in a manner that is inconsistent with our assumptions. in addition, from time to time we divest businesses, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders' equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. a material decrease in shareholders' equity could, in turn, adversely impact our credit ratings and potentially impact our compliance with the covenants in our bank credit facilities. if we fail to maintain properly the integrity or availability of our data or successfully consolidate, integrate, upgrade or expand our existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our ability to price adequately our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to report accurately our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. we periodically consolidate, integrate, upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities as a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions. in addition, recent trends toward greater consumer engagement in health care require new and enhanced technologies including more sophisticated applications for mobile devices. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses is found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, experience problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, become subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse 22 table of contents consequences. our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology may not be successful. failure to protect, consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our businesses sell and install software products that may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. connectivity among competing technologies is becoming increasingly important in the health care industry. a failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. uncertain and rapidly evolving u.s. federal and state, non-u.s. and international laws and regulations related to the health information technology market may present compliance challenges and could materially and adversely affect the configuration of our information systems and platforms, and our ability to compete in this market. if we sustain cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents, that result in security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the unintended dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences. we routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data in our operations, including sensitive personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or third-parties. some of the data we process, store and transmit may be outside of the u.s. due to our information technology systems and international business operations. we may be subject to breaches of the information technology systems we use. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our layered security controls and misappropriate or compromise sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. they also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. our facilities may also be vulnerable to security incidents or security attacks; acts of vandalism or theft; coordinated attacks by activist entities; misplaced or lost data; human errors; or other similar events that could negatively affect our systems and our and our customer's data. the costs to eliminate or address the foregoing security threats and vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary information or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose our customers' private information and our customers to the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. if we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases, software and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our regulated subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. many of these subsidiaries are regulated by departments of insurance or similar regulatory authorities. we are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium revenues generated by the applicable subsidiary. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. an inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies in the desired amounts or at the time of our choosing could adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, as well as our ability to 23 table of contents maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment cycle, repurchase shares of our common stock and repay our debt. if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. any downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. claims paying ability, financial strength, and credit ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically. our ratings reflect each credit rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. there can be no assurance that our current credit ratings will be maintained in the future. downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, could materially increase our costs of or ability to access funds in the debt and capital markets and otherwise materially increase our operating costs. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risks are exposures to (a) changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and interest expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt, (b) foreign currency exchange rate risk of the u.s. dollar primarily to the brazilian real and (c) changes in equity prices that impact the value of our equity investments. as of december 31, 2014 , we had $9.4 billion of financial assets on which the interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may materially impact our investment income. also as of december 31, 2014 , $12.6 billion of our financial liabilities, which include commercial paper, debt and deposit liabilities, were at interest rates that vary with market rates, either directly or through the use of related interest rate swap contracts. the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. as of december 31, 2014 , $17.2 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities and $7.7 billion of our debt was non-swapped fixed-rate term debt. an increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. we manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed income market sectors and debt across maturities, as well as by endeavoring to match our floating-rate assets and liabilities over time, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap contracts. unrealized gains and losses on investments in available-for-sale securities are reported in comprehensive income. the following tables summarize the impact of hypothetical changes in market interest rates across the entire yield curve by 1% point or 2% points as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 on our investment income and interest expense per annum, and the fair value of our investments and debt (in millions, except percentages): december 31, 2014 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of financial assets(b) fair value of financial liabilities 2 % $ 187 $ 245 $ (1,364 ) $ (1,846 ) 1 94 122 (683 ) (1,014 ) (1) (54 ) (21 ) 628 1,242 (2) nm nm 982 2,770 december 31, 2013 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of financial assets(b) fair value of financial liabilities 2% $ 175 $ 189 $ (1,474 ) $ (1,786 ) 1 87 95 (756 ) (974 ) (1) (52 ) (17 ) 704 1,167 (2) nm nm 1,224 2,505 nm = not meaningful (a) given the low absolute level of short-term market rates on our floating-rate assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, the assumed hypothetical change in interest rates does not reflect the full 100 basis point reduction in interest income or interest expense as the rate cannot fall below zero and thus the 200 basis point reduction is not meaningful. (b) as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, some of our investments had interest rates below 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in the fair value of investments does not reflect the full 200 basis point reduction. we have an exposure to changes in the value of the brazilian real to the u.s. dollar in translation of amil's operating results at the average exchange rate over the accounting period, and amil's assets and liabilities at the spot rate at the end of the accounting period. the gains or losses resulting from translating foreign assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars are included in shareholders' equity and comprehensive income. an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real reduces the carrying value of the net assets denominated in brazilian real. for example, as of december 31, 2014 , a hypothetical 10% and 20% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real would have caused a reduction in net assets of approximately $430 million and $790 million, respectively. we manage exposure to foreign currency risk by conducting our international business operations primarily in their functional currencies. as of december 31, 2014 , we had $1.5 billion of investments in equity securities, consisting of investments in non-u.s. dollar fixed-income funds; employee savings plan related investments; venture capital funds; and dividend paying stocks. valuations in non-u.s. dollar funds are subject to foreign exchange rates. valuations in venture capital funds are subject to conditions affecting health care and technology stocks, and dividend paying equities are subject to more general market conditions. 47 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors cautionary statements the statements, estimates, projections or outlook contained in this annual report on form 10-k include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (pslra). when used in this annual report on form 10-k and in future filings by us with the sec, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, forecast, outlook, plan, project, should or similar words or phrases are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. these statements are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the pslra. these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this report and, except as required by law; we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date of this report. the following discussion contains cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. we do not undertake to address in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations how any of these factors may have caused our results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. in addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. any or all forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. our forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors discussed below will be important in determining our future results. by their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. if we fail to estimate, price for and manage our medical costs in an effective manner, the profitability of our risk-based products and services could decline and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. through our risk-based benefit products, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. premium revenues from risk-based benefits products comprise over 80% of our total consolidated revenues. we generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. the profitability of our products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and effectively manage medical costs. in this regard, federal and state regulatory requirements obligate our commercial, medicare advantage and certain state-based medicaid health plans to maintain minimum mlrs, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain price increases for our products. in addition, our optumcare business negotiates capitation arrangements with commercial third-party payers. under the typical capitation arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of a third-party payer's premiums to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the capitated member. if we fail to predict accurately, price for or manage the costs of providing care to our capitated members, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered, the cost of each service and the type of service rendered. our premium revenue on commercial policies is typically at a fixed monthly rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to six months before the contract commences. our revenue on medicare policies is based on bids submitted in june the year before the contract year. although we base the premiums we charge and our medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period, many factors may cause actual costs to exceed those estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. these factors may include medical cost inflation, increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, natural catastrophes or other large-scale medical emergencies, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly drugs, treatments and technology, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of essential benefits coverage) or other regulatory changes and insured population characteristics. relatively small differences 14 table of contents between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. for example, if our 2015 medical costs for commercial insured products were 1% higher, without proportionally higher revenues from such products, our annual net earnings for 2015 would have been reduced by approximately $210 million, excluding any offsetting impact from reduced premium rebates due to minimum mlrs. in addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. these estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. if these estimates prove inaccurate, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our business activities are highly regulated and new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially and adversely affect our business. we are regulated by federal, state and local governments in the united states and other countries where we do business. our insurance and hmo subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. for example, states require periodic financial reports and enforce minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations and some of our activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including those relating to ppos, mcos, ur and tpa-related regulations and licensure requirements. some of our unitedhealthcare and optum businesses hold or provide services related to government contracts and are subject to u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. self-referral, anti-kickback, medical necessity, risk adjustment, false claims and other laws and regulations governing government contractors and the use of government funds. in addition, under state guaranty association laws, certain insurance companies can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of impaired or insolvent insurance companies (including state insurance cooperatives) that write the same line or similar lines of business. any such assessment could expose our insurance entities and other insurers to the risk of paying a portion of an impaired or insolvent insurance company's claims through state guaranty association assessments. certain of our businesses provide products or services to various government agencies. our relationships with these government agencies are subject to the terms of contracts that we hold with the agencies and to laws and regulations regarding government contracts. among others, certain laws and regulations restrict or prohibit companies from performing work for government agencies that might be viewed as an actual or potential conflict of interest. these laws may limit our ability to pursue and perform certain types of work, thereby materially and adversely affecting our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our optum businesses are also subject to regulations, which are distinct from those faced by our insurance and hmo subsidiaries, including, for example, state telemedicine regulations, debt collection laws, banking regulations, distributor and producer licensing requirements, state corporate practice of medicine doctrines, fee-splitting rules, health care facility licensure and certificate of need requirements, some of which could impact our relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. these risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted margins, or may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate. the laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change, and the integration into our businesses of entities that we acquire may affect the way in which existing laws and rules apply to us, including subjecting us to laws and rules that did not previously apply to us. the broad latitude given to the agencies administering, interpreting and enforcing current and future regulations governing our business could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, or expose us to increased liability in courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. we must also obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products and services, increase prices for certain regulated products and services and complete certain acquisitions and dispositions or integrate certain acquisitions. for example, premium rates for our health insurance and managed care products are subject to regulatory review or approval in many states and by the federal government. additionally, we must submit data on all proposed rate increases to hhs for monitoring purposes on many of our products. geographic and product expansions may be subject to state and federal regulatory approvals. delays in obtaining necessary approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain adequate approvals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our businesses operate internationally and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or conduct business. these regulatory regimes encompass, among other matters, local and cross-border taxation, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, investment, capital (including minimum solvency margin and reserve requirements), management control, labor, anti-fraud, anti-corruption and privacy and data protection regulations (including requirements for cross-border data transfers) that vary by jurisdiction. we currently operate outside of the united states and in the future may acquire or commence additional businesses based outside of the united states, increasing our exposure to non-u.s. regulatory regimes. for example, our amil business subjects us to brazilian laws and regulations affecting the managed care and to 15 table of contents insurance industries and regulation by brazilian regulators, including the national regulatory agency for private health insurance and plans, the ag ncia nacional de sa de suplementar, whose approach to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of industry regulations could differ from the approach taken by u.s. regulators. in addition, our non-u.s. businesses and operations are subject to u.s. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of u.s.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the fcpa, which prohibits offering, promising, providing or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage. our failure to comply with u.s. or non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the united states or to establish constructive relations with non-u.s. regulators could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted operating margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the health care industry is also regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of governmental investigations, adverse media coverage and political debate surrounding industry regulation, such as health reform legislation and associated exchanges. negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation in various markets. health reform legislation could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct business and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. due to its complexity, ongoing implementation and continued legal challenges, health reform legislation's full impact remains difficult to predict and could adversely affect us. for example, health reform legislation includes specific reforms for the individual and small group marketplace, including guaranteed availability of coverage, adjusted community rating requirements (which include elimination of health status and gender rating factors), essential health benefit requirements (resulting in benefit changes for many members) and actuarial value requirements resulting in expanded benefits or reduced member cost sharing (or a combination of both) for many policyholders. in addition, if we do not maintain certain minimum loss ratios, we are required to rebate ratable portions of our premiums to our customers. these changes can cause significant disruptions in local health care markets and adjustments to our business, all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. health reform legislation required the establishment of health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers and requires insurers participating on the health insurance exchanges to offer a minimum level of benefits and includes guidelines on setting premium rates and coverage limitations. while risk adjustment applies to most individual and small group plans in the commercial markets, actual risk adjustment calculations and transfers could materially differ from our assumptions. our participation in these exchanges involves uncertainties associated with mix and volume of business and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if the number of individuals who gain coverage under health reform legislation varies from our expectations, if the demand for health reform legislation related products and capabilities offered by our optum businesses is less than anticipated or if our costs are greater than anticipated. for a discussion of individual exchange-compliant products, see part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. as a result of our participation in various government health care programs, both as a payer and as a service provider to payers, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments, audits and government investigations that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we participate in various federal, state and local government health care benefit programs, including as a payer in medicare advantage, medicare part d, various medicaid programs, chip and our tricare contract with the dod, and receive substantial revenues from these programs. certain of our optum businesses also provide services to payers participating in government health care programs. a reduction or less than expected increase, or a protracted delay, in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies, or, as is a typical feature of many government contracts, termination of the contract at the option of the government, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the government health care programs in which we participate generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible for coverage, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, reduce our participation in certain service areas or markets, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. revenues for these programs depend on periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. funding for these government programs depends on many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level. for example cms has in the past reduced or frozen medicare advantage benchmarks, and additional cuts to medicare advantage benchmarks are possible. in addition, from time to time, cms makes changes to the way it calculates medicare advantage risk adjustment payments. although we have adjusted members' benefits and premiums on a selective basis, ceased to offer benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost 16 table of contents management in response to the benchmark reductions and other funding pressures, these or other strategies may not fully address the funding pressures in the medicare advantage program. in addition, payers in the medicare advantage program may be subject to reductions in payments from cms as a result of decreased funding or recoupment pursuant to government audit. under the medicaid managed care program, state medicaid agencies seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care medicaid health programs. if we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state medicaid managed care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those medicaid plans. under the medicare part d program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a regional benchmark, which is calculated by the government after all regional bids are submitted. if the enrollee premium is not below the government benchmark, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. in general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs and other factors. in the event any of these assumptions is materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the programs on which we bid, or submission by our competitors at lower rates than our bids, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. many of the government health care coverage programs in which we participate are subject to the prior satisfaction of certain conditions or performance standards or benchmarks. for example, as part of health reform legislation, cms has a system that provides various quality bonus payments to plans that meet certain quality star ratings at the local plan level. the star rating system considers various measures adopted by cms, including, among other things, quality of care, preventative services, chronic illness management and customer satisfaction. plans must have a rating of four stars or higher to qualify for bonus payments. if we do not maintain or continue to improve our star ratings, our plans may not be eligible for quality bonuses and we may experience a negative impact on our revenues and the benefits that our plans can offer, which could materially and adversely affect our membership levels, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, under health reform legislation, congress authorized cms and the states to implement mmp managed care demonstration programs to serve dually eligible beneficiaries to improve the coordination of their care. health plan participation in these demonstration programs is subject to cms approval of specified care delivery models and the satisfaction of conditions to participation, including meeting certain performance requirements. any changes in standards or care delivery models that apply to government health care programs, including medicare, medicaid and the mmp demonstration programs for dually eligible beneficiaries, or our inability to improve our quality scores and star ratings to meet government performance requirements or to match the performance of our competitors could result in limitations to our participation in or exclusion from these or other government programs, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. cms uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for medicare programs, including adjusting monthly capitation payments to medicare advantage plans and medicare part d plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers for medicare advantage plans, as well as, for medicare part d plans, risk-sharing provisions based on a comparison of costs predicted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs. some state medicaid programs utilize a similar process. for example, our unitedhealthcare medicare &amp; retirement and unitedhealthcare community &amp; state businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to cms or state agencies for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. cms and the office of inspector general for hhs periodically perform risk adjustment data validation (radv) audits of selected medicare health plans to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers, and certain of our local plans have been selected for audit. such audits have in the past resulted and could in the future result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans, fines, corrective action plans or other adverse action by cms. we have been and may in the future become involved in routine, regular and special governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments. certain of our businesses have been reviewed or are currently under review, including for compliance with coding and other requirements under the medicare risk-adjustment model, our chart review programs and related processes. such investigations, audits or reviews sometimes arise out of or prompt claims by private litigants or whistleblowers that, among other allegations, we failed to disclose certain business practices or, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government. governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments could lead to government actions, which could result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. if we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security and data laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information are regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers. these laws, rules and requirements are subject to change. compliance with new privacy and security laws, 17 table of contents regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain or require us to alter our business model or operations. for example, the hitech amendments to hipaa imposed further restrictions on our ability to collect, disclose and use sensitive personal information and imposed additional compliance requirements on our business. while we transitioned to icd-10 as a hipaa-regulated entity, providers may use icd-10 codes differently than they used icd-9 codes in the past, which could result in lost revenues under risk adjustment or increased medical costs for full-risk health insurance products. many of our businesses are also subject to the payment card industry data security standard, which is a multifaceted security standard that is designed to protect credit card account data as mandated by payment card industry entities. hipaa requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. while we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. several of our businesses act as business associates to their covered entity customers and, as a result, collect, use, disclose and maintain sensitive personal information in order to provide services to these customers. hhs has announced that it will continue its audit program to assess hipaa compliance efforts by covered entities and expand it to include business associates. an audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. through our optum businesses, including our optum labs business, we maintain a database of administrative and clinical data that is statistically de-identified in accordance with hipaa standards. noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business, including mandatory disclosure to the media, loss of existing or new customers, significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents and material fines, penalties and litigation awards, among other consequences, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our businesses providing pharmacy care services face regulatory and operational risks and uncertainties that may differ from the risks of our other businesses. we provide pharmacy care services through our optumrx and unitedhealthcare businesses. each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern the relationships of the business with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies, customers and consumers. optumrx also conducts business through home delivery and specialty pharmacies, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those of the u.s. drug enforcement administration and individual state controlled substance authorities. in addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially and adversely affect current industry practices, including potential new regulations regarding the receipt or disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies, the use of average wholesale prices or other pricing benchmarks, pricing for specialty pharmaceuticals and pharmacy network reimbursement methodologies. our pharmacy care services businesses would be materially and adversely affected by our inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and other suppliers, and could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our home delivery or specialty pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. disruptions at any of our home delivery or specialty pharmacies due to an accident or an event that is beyond our control could affect our ability to process and dispense prescriptions in a timely manner and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, our pharmacy care services businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to erisa. a private party or the dol, which is the agency that enforces erisa, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pharmacy care services businesses even where our pharmacy care services businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. in the event a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply to our pharmacy care services businesses in connection with services for which our pharmacy care services businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or claims that we entered into certain prohibited transactions. if we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our businesses compete throughout the united states, brazil and other foreign markets and face significant competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. in particular markets, our competitors, compared to us, may have greater capabilities, resources or market share; a more established reputation; superior supplier or health care professional 18 table of contents arrangements; better existing business relationships; lower profit margin or financial return expectations; or other factors that give such competitors a competitive advantage. in addition, our competitive position may be adversely affected by significant merger and acquisition activity that has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both among our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other care professionals). consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase our customer base, improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or maintain or increase profitability. additionally, new direct-to-consumer business models from competing businesses may make it more difficult for us to directly engage consumers in the selection and management of their health care benefits, health care usage, and in the effective navigation of the health care system we may be challenged by new technologies and market entrants that could disrupt our existing relationship with health plan enrollees in these areas. our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect or declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals and other service providers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and other service providers at competitive prices. any failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain activities related to network design, provider participation in networks and provider payments could result in disputes that may be costly, distract managements' attention and result in negative publicity. in any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. in addition, accountable care organizations; practice management companies (which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency); and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other care providers choose may change the way in which these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape. such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which could adversely affect our operations, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows by impacting our relationships with these providers or affecting the way that we price our products and estimate our costs, which might require us to incur costs to change our operations. in addition, if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. we have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the health care provider. to the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider, under the capitation arrangement. further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts could result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. health care providers with whom we contract may not properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. in those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. in some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances, the amount is either not defined or is established by a standard that does not clearly specify dollar terms. in some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. the success of certain businesses, including optumcare and amil, depend on maintaining satisfactory physician employment relationships. the primary care physicians that practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. there is and will likely be heightened competition in the markets where we operate to acquire or manage physician practices or to employ or contract with individual physicians. if we are unable to maintain or grow satisfactory relationships 19 table of contents with primary care physicians, or to acquire, recruit or, in some instances, employ physicians, or to retain enrollees following the departure of a physician, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, our affiliated physician organizations contract with health insurance and hmo competitors of unitedhealthcare. our business could suffer if our affiliated physician organizations fail to maintain relationships with these health insurance or hmo companies, or adequately price their contracts with these third-party payers. in addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and certain health care providers are customers of our optum businesses. given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we are routinely subject to various litigation actions due to the nature of our business, which could damage our reputation and, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties or monetary damages and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to, among other matters, the design, management and delivery of our product and service offerings. these matters have included or could in the future include matters related to health care benefits coverage and payment claims (including disputes with enrollees, customers and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort claims (including claims related to the delivery of health care services, such as medical malpractice by health care practitioners who are employed by us, have contractual relationships with us, or serve as providers to our managed care networks), whistleblower claims (including claims under the false claims act or similar statutes), contract and labor disputes, tax claims and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. we are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups and consumers. in addition, we operate in jurisdictions outside of the united states, where contractual rights, tax positions and applicable regulations may be subject to interpretation or uncertainty to a greater degree than in the united states, and therefore subject to dispute by customers, government authorities or others. we are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. although we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. although we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters, it is possible that the level of actual losses will significantly exceed the liabilities recorded. we cannot predict the outcome of significant legal actions in which we are involved and are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. the legal actions we face or may face in the future could further increase our cost of doing business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain legal actions could result in adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our ability to retain our current business or grow our market share in some markets and businesses. any failure by us to manage successfully our strategic alliances or complete, manage or integrate acquisitions and other significant strategic transactions or relationships could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. for example, we have a strategic alliance with aarp under which we provide aarp-branded medicare supplement insurance to aarp members and other aarp-branded products and services to medicare beneficiaries. if we fail to meet the needs of our alliance or joint venture partners, including by developing additional products and services, providing high levels of service, pricing our products and services competitively or responding effectively to applicable federal and state regulatory changes, our alliances and joint ventures could be damaged or terminated, which in turn could adversely impact our reputation, business and results of operations. further, if we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. success in completing acquisitions is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations, including our internal control environment, or otherwise leveraging its operations, which may present challenges that are different from those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult for us to manage. if we cannot successfully integrate these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue growth opportunities and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. as we expand and operate our business outside of the united states, we are presented with challenges that differ from those presented by acquisitions of domestic businesses, including challenges in adapting to new markets, business, labor and cultural practices and regulatory environments. adapting to these challenges could require us to devote significant senior management and other resources to the acquired businesses before we realize anticipated synergies or other benefits from the acquired 20 table of contents businesses. these challenges vary widely by country and may include political instability, government intervention, discriminatory regulation and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that could prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which our acquired businesses operate or converting local currencies that we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies. if we are unable to manage successfully our non-u.s. acquisitions, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our equity from period to period, which could adversely affect our debt to debt-plus-equity ratio, and our future revenues, costs and cash flows from international operations. any measures we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies may be costly or ineffective. our sales performance will suffer if we do not adequately attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent producers and consultants. our products and services are sold in part through independent producers and consultants with whom we do not have exclusive contracts and for whose services and allegiance we must compete intensely. our sales would be materially and adversely affected if we were unable to attract, retain and support such independent producers and consultants or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. our relationships with producers could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in our business practices and the nature of our relationships to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commissions. a number of investigations have been conducted regarding the marketing practices of producers selling health care products and the payments they receive and have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and producers marketing and selling those companies' products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans, which could materially and adversely impact our ability to market our products. unfavorable economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. unfavorable economic conditions may impact demand for certain of our products and services. for example, high unemployment can cause lower enrollment or lower rates of renewal in our employer group plans. unfavorable economic conditions have also caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. in addition, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact our ability to increase premiums or result in the cancellation by certain customers of our products and services. these conditions could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. during a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including medicare, medicaid and chip. a reduction in state medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to apply to payments already negotiated or received from the government and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the affected governments to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and hmos and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims. any of these developments or actions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. a prolonged unfavorable economic environment also could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could materially and adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or materially and adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. further, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the customers of our optum businesses, including health plans, hmos, hospitals, care providers, employers and others, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect optum's financial results. our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which constitute the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of december 31, 2015 . relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have adversely impacted our investment income, and the continuation of the current low interest rate environment could further adversely affect our investment income. in addition, a delay in payment of principal or interest by issuers, or defaults by issuers (primarily from investments in corporate and municipal bonds), could reduce our investment income and require us to write down the value of our investments, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability and equity. there can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than their carrying values. changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, changes in issuer financial conditions, illiquidity or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our equity. in addition, if it 21 table of contents became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, such an action could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of regulated subsidiaries. if the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, equity and credit ratings could be materially and adversely affected. as of december 31, 2015 , goodwill and other intangible assets had a carrying value of $53 billion , representing 47% of our total consolidated assets. we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. the value of our goodwill may be materially and adversely impacted if businesses that we acquire perform in a manner that is inconsistent with our assumptions. in addition, from time to time we divest businesses, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. a material decrease in equity could, in turn, adversely impact our credit ratings and potentially impact our compliance with the covenants in our bank credit facilities. if we fail to maintain properly the integrity or availability of our data or successfully consolidate, integrate, upgrade or expand our existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our ability to price adequately our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to report accurately our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. we periodically consolidate, integrate, upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities as a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions. in addition, recent trends toward greater consumer engagement in health care require new and enhanced technologies, including more sophisticated applications for mobile devices. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses is found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, experience problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, become subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology may not be successful. failure to protect, consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our businesses sell and install software products that may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. connectivity among competing technologies is becoming increasingly important in the health care industry. a failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. uncertain and rapidly evolving u.s. federal and state, non-u.s. and international laws and regulations related to the health information technology market may present compliance challenges and could materially and adversely affect the configuration of our information systems and platforms, and our ability to compete in this market. if we sustain cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents, that result in security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the unintended dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences. we routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data in our operations, including sensitive personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or third-parties. some of the data we process, store and transmit may be outside of the united states due to our information technology systems and international business operations. we may be subject to breaches of the information technology systems we use. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our layered security controls and misappropriate or compromise sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. they also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. our facilities may also be vulnerable to security incidents or security attacks; acts of vandalism or 22 table of contents theft; coordinated attacks by activist entities; misplaced or lost data; human errors; or other similar events that could negatively affect our systems and our and our customer's data. the costs to eliminate or address the foregoing security threats and vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary information or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose our customers' private information and our customers to the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. if we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases, software and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our regulated subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. many of these subsidiaries are regulated by departments of insurance or similar regulatory authorities. we are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium revenues generated by the applicable subsidiary. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. an inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies in the desired amounts or at the time of our choosing could adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, as well as our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment cycle, repurchase shares of our common stock and repay our debt. if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. any downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. claims paying ability, financial strength and credit ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically. our ratings reflect each credit rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. there can be no assurance that our current credit ratings will be maintained in the future. downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, could materially increase our costs of or ability to access funds in the debt and capital markets and otherwise materially increase our operating costs. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risks are exposures to changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and interest expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt, as well as foreign currency exchange rate risk of the u.s. dollar primarily to the brazilian real. as of december 31, 2015, we had $12.9 billion of financial assets on which the interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may materially impact our investment income. also as of december 31, 2015, $12.9 billion of our financial liabilities, which include commercial paper, debt and deposit liabilities, were at interest rates that vary with market rates, either directly or through the use of related interest rate swap contracts. the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. as of december 31, 2015, $17.1 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities and $21.9 billion of our debt was non-swapped fixed-rate term debt. an increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. we manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed income market sectors and debt across maturities, as well as by endeavoring to match our floating-rate assets and liabilities over time, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap contracts. unrealized gains and losses on investments in available-for-sale securities are reported in comprehensive income. 42 table of contents the following tables summarize the impact of hypothetical changes in market interest rates across the entire yield curve by 1% point or 2% points as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 on our investment income and interest expense per annum and the fair value of our investments and debt (in millions, except percentages): december 31, 2015 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of financial assets (b) fair value of financial liabilities (c) 2 % $ 258 $ 257 $ (1,388 ) $ (3,233 ) 1 129 128 (702 ) (1,746 ) (1) (80 ) (55 ) 677 2,085 (2) nm nm 1,132 4,442 december 31, 2014 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of financial assets (b) fair value of financial liabilities 2% $ 187 $ 245 $ (1,364 ) $ (1,846 ) 1 94 122 (683 ) (1,014 ) (1) (54 ) (21 ) 628 1,242 (2) nm nm 982 2,770 nm = not meaningful (a) given the low absolute level of short-term market rates on our floating-rate assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, the assumed hypothetical change in interest rates does not reflect the full 100 basis point reduction in interest income or interest expense as the rate cannot fall below zero and thus the 200 basis point reduction is not meaningful. (b) as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, some of our investments had interest rates below 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in the fair value of investments does not reflect the full 200 basis point reduction. (c) the year over year change in the fair value of financial liabilities was driven by the issuance of debt to fund the catamaran acquisition. for more information on our debt issuances, see note 9 of notes to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report. we have an exposure to changes in the value of the brazilian real to the u.s. dollar in translation of amil's operating results at the average exchange rate over the accounting period, and amil's assets and liabilities at the spot rate at the end of the accounting period. the gains or losses resulting from translating foreign assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars are included in equity and comprehensive income. an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real reduces the carrying value of the net assets denominated in brazilian real. for example, as of december 31, 2015, a hypothetical 10% and 25% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real would have caused a reduction in net assets of approximately $300 million and $660 million, respectively. we manage exposure to foreign currency earnings risk by conducting our international business operations primarily in their functional currencies. as of december 31, 2015, we had $1.6 billion of investments in equity securities, consisting of investments in non-u.s. dollar fixed-income funds; employee savings plan related investments; venture capital funds; and dividend paying stocks. valuations in non-u.s. dollar funds are subject to foreign exchange rates. valuations in venture capital funds are subject to conditions affecting health care and technology stocks and dividend paying equities are subject to more general market conditions. 43 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors cautionary statements the statements, estimates, projections or outlook contained in this annual report on form 10-k include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (pslra). when used in this annual report on form 10-k and in future filings by us with the sec, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, forecast, outlook, plan, project, should or similar words or phrases are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. these statements are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the pslra. these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this report and, except as required by law; we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date of this report. the following discussion contains cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. we do not undertake to address in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations how any of these factors may have caused our results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. in addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. any or all forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. our forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors discussed below will be important in determining our future results. by their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. if we fail to estimate, price for and manage our medical costs in an effective manner, the profitability of our risk-based products and services could decline and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. through our risk-based benefit products, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. premium revenues from risk-based benefits products comprise nearly 80% of our total consolidated revenues. we generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. the profitability of our products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and effectively manage medical costs. in this regard, federal and state regulatory requirements obligate our commercial, medicare advantage and certain state-based medicaid health plans to maintain minimum mlrs, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain price increases for our products. in addition, our optumhealth business negotiates capitation arrangements with commercial third-party payers. under the typical capitation arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of a third-party payer's premiums to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the capitated member. if we fail to predict accurately, price for or manage the costs of providing care to our capitated members, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered, the cost of each service and the type of service rendered. our premium revenue on commercial policies is typically at a fixed monthly rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to six months before the contract commences. our revenue on medicare policies is based on bids submitted in june the year before the contract year. although we base the premiums we charge and our medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period, many factors may cause actual costs to exceed those estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. these factors may include medical cost inflation, increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, natural catastrophes or other large-scale medical emergencies, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly drugs, treatments and technology, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of 13 table of contents essential benefits coverage) or other regulatory changes and insured population characteristics. relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. for example, if our 2016 medical costs for commercial insured products were 1% higher, without proportionally higher revenues from such products, our annual net earnings for 2016 would have been reduced by approximately $240 million, excluding any offsetting impact from risk adjustment, reinsurance or from reduced premium rebates due to minimum mlrs. in addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. these estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. if these estimates prove inaccurate, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our business activities are highly regulated and new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially and adversely affect our business. we are regulated by federal, state and local governments in the united states and other countries where we do business. our insurance and hmo subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. for example, states require periodic financial reports and enforce minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations and some of our activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including those relating to ppos, mcos, ur and tpa-related regulations and licensure requirements. some of our unitedhealthcare and optum businesses hold or provide services related to government contracts and are subject to u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. self-referral, anti-kickback, medical necessity, risk adjustment, false claims and other laws and regulations governing government contractors and the use of government funds. in addition, under state guaranty association laws, certain insurance companies can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of impaired or insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or similar lines of business. some states have similar laws relating to hmos and other payers such as consumer operated and oriented plans (co-ops) established under the aca. any such assessment could expose our insurance entities and other insurers to the risk of paying a portion of an impaired or insolvent insurance company's claims through state guaranty associations. certain of our businesses provide products or services to various government agencies. our relationships with these government agencies are subject to the terms of contracts that we hold with the agencies and to laws and regulations regarding government contracts. among others, certain laws and regulations restrict or prohibit companies from performing work for government agencies that might be viewed as an actual or potential conflict of interest. these laws may limit our ability to pursue and perform certain types of work, thereby materially and adversely affecting our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our optum businesses are also subject to regulations, which are distinct from those faced by our insurance and hmo subsidiaries, including, for example, state telemedicine regulations, debt collection laws, banking regulations, distributor and producer licensing requirements, state corporate practice of medicine doctrines, fee-splitting rules, health care facility licensure and certificate of need requirements, some of which could impact our relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. these risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted margins, or may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate. the laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change, and the integration into our businesses of entities that we acquire may affect the way in which existing laws and rules apply to us, including subjecting us to laws and rules that did not previously apply to us. the broad latitude given to the agencies administering, interpreting and enforcing current and future regulations governing our business could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, or expose us to increased liability in courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. we must also obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products and services, increase prices for certain regulated products and services and complete certain acquisitions and dispositions or integrate certain acquisitions. for example, premium rates for our health insurance and managed care products are subject to regulatory review or approval in many states and by the federal government. additionally, we must submit data on all proposed rate increases to hhs for monitoring purposes on many of our products. geographic and product expansions may be subject to state and federal regulatory approvals. delays in obtaining necessary approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain adequate approvals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our businesses operate internationally and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or conduct business. these regulatory regimes encompass, among other matters, local and cross-border taxation, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, investment, capital (including minimum solvency margin and reserve requirements), management control, labor, anti-fraud, anti-corruption and privacy and data protection regulations (including requirements for cross-border data 14 table of contents transfers) that vary by jurisdiction. we currently operate outside of the united states and in the future may acquire or commence additional businesses based outside of the united states, increasing our exposure to non-u.s. regulatory regimes. for example, our unitedhealthcare brazil business subjects us to brazilian laws and regulations affecting hospitals, managed care and insurance industries and to regulation by brazilian regulators, including the national regulatory agency for private health insurance and plans, the ag ncia nacional de sa de suplementar, whose approach to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of industry regulations could differ from the approach taken by u.s. regulators. in addition, our non-u.s. businesses and operations are subject to u.s. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of u.s.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the fcpa, which prohibits offering, promising, providing or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage. our failure to comply with u.s. or non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the united states or to establish constructive relations with non-u.s. regulators could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted operating margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the health care industry is also regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of governmental investigations, adverse media coverage and political debate surrounding industry regulation. negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation in various markets. the aca could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct business and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. due to its complexity and continued uncertainty, the aca's impact remains difficult to predict and could adversely affect us. the aca includes specific reforms for the individual and small group marketplace, including guaranteed availability of coverage, adjusted community rating requirements (which include elimination of health status and gender rating factors), essential health benefit requirements (resulting in benefit changes for many members) and actuarial value requirements resulting in expanded benefits or reduced member cost sharing (or a combination of both) for many policyholders. in addition, if we do not maintain certain mlrs, we are required to rebate ratable portions of our premiums to our customers. these requirements can cause significant disruptions in local health care markets and adjustments to our business, all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if the number of individuals who gain coverage under the aca varies from our expectations, if the demand for the aca related products and capabilities offered by our optum businesses is less than anticipated or if our costs are greater than anticipated. the trump administration and congressional leaders have expressed their intentions to repeal and replace the aca. we cannot predict if the aca will be modified, repealed or replaced, but changes to this law could materially impact our operating results, require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business. as a result of our participation in various government health care programs, both as a payer and as a service provider to payers, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments, audits and government investigations that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we participate in various federal, state and local government health care benefit programs, including as a payer in medicare advantage, medicare part d, various medicaid programs, chip and our tricare contract with the dod, and receive substantial revenues from these programs. certain of our optum businesses also provide services to payers participating in government health care programs. a reduction or less than expected increase, or a protracted delay, in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies, or, as is a typical feature of many government contracts, termination of the contract at the option of the government, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the government health care programs in which we participate generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible for coverage, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, reduce our participation in certain service areas or markets, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. revenues for these programs depend on periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. funding for these government programs depends on many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level. for example cms has in the past reduced or frozen medicare advantage benchmarks, and additional cuts to medicare advantage benchmarks are possible. in addition, from time to time, cms makes changes to the way it calculates medicare advantage risk adjustment payments. although we have adjusted members' benefits and premiums on a selective basis, ceased to offer benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to the benchmark reductions and other funding pressures, these or other strategies may not fully 15 table of contents address the funding pressures in the medicare advantage program. in addition, payers in the medicare advantage program may be subject to reductions in payments from cms as a result of decreased funding or recoupment pursuant to government audit. under the medicaid managed care program, state medicaid agencies seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care medicaid health programs. if we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state medicaid managed care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those medicaid plans. under the medicare part d program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a regional benchmark, which is calculated by the government after all regional bids are submitted. if the enrollee premium is not below the government benchmark, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. in general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs and other factors. in the event any of these assumptions is materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the programs on which we bid, or submission by our competitors at lower rates than our bids, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. many of the government health care coverage programs in which we participate are subject to the prior satisfaction of certain conditions or performance standards or benchmarks. for example, as part of the aca, cms has a system that provides various quality bonus payments to medicare advantage plans that meet certain quality star ratings at the local plan level. the star rating system considers various measures adopted by cms, including, among other things, quality of care, preventative services, chronic illness management and customer satisfaction. plans must have a rating of four stars or higher to qualify for bonus payments. if we do not maintain or continue to improve our star ratings, our plans may not be eligible for quality bonuses and we may experience a negative impact on our revenues and the benefits that our plans can offer, which could materially and adversely affect our membership levels, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, under the aca, congress authorized cms and the states to implement mmp managed care demonstration programs to serve dually eligible beneficiaries to improve the coordination of their care. health plan participation in these demonstration programs is subject to cms approval of specified care delivery models and the satisfaction of conditions to participation, including meeting certain performance requirements. any changes in standards or care delivery models that apply to government health care programs, including medicare, medicaid and the mmp demonstration programs for dually eligible beneficiaries, or our inability to improve our quality scores and star ratings to meet government performance requirements or to match the performance of our competitors could result in limitations to our participation in or exclusion from these or other government programs, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. cms uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for medicare programs, including adjusting monthly capitation payments to medicare advantage plans and medicare part d plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers for medicare advantage plans, as well as, for medicare part d plans, risk-sharing provisions based on a comparison of costs predicted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs. some state medicaid programs utilize a similar process. for example, our unitedhealthcare medicare &amp; retirement and unitedhealthcare community &amp; state businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to cms or state agencies for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. cms and the office of inspector general for hhs periodically perform risk adjustment data validation (radv) audits of selected medicare health plans to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers, and certain of our local plans have been selected for audit. such audits have in the past resulted and could in the future result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans, fines, corrective action plans or other adverse action by cms. we have been and may in the future become involved in routine, regular and special governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments. certain of our businesses have been reviewed or are currently under review, including for compliance with coding and other requirements under the medicare risk-adjustment model, our chart review programs and related processes. such investigations, audits or reviews sometimes arise out of or prompt claims by private litigants or whistleblowers that, among other allegations, we failed to disclose certain business practices or, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government. governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments could lead to government actions, which could result in adverse publicity, the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. if we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security and data laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information are regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers. these laws, rules and requirements are subject to change. compliance with new privacy and security laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain or require us to alter our business 16 table of contents model or operations. for example, the hitech amendments to hipaa imposed further restrictions on our ability to collect, disclose and use sensitive personal information and imposed additional compliance requirements on our business. in addition, the general data protection regulation of the european union imposes higher potential penalties and more stringent compliance and data security requirements on our ability to collect, process and transfer personal data relating to our european businesses. many of our businesses are also subject to the payment card industry data security standard, which is a multifaceted security standard that is designed to protect credit card account data as mandated by payment card industry entities. hipaa requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. while we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. several of our businesses act as business associates to their covered entity customers and, as a result, collect, use, disclose and maintain sensitive personal information in order to provide services to these customers. hhs has announced that it will continue its audit program to assess hipaa compliance efforts by covered entities and expand it to include business associates. an audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. through our optum businesses, including our optum labs business, we maintain a database of administrative and clinical data that is statistically de-identified in accordance with hipaa standards. noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business, including mandatory disclosure to the media, loss of existing or new customers, significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents and material fines, penalties and litigation awards, among other consequences, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our businesses providing pharmacy care services face regulatory and operational risks and uncertainties that may differ from the risks of our other businesses. we provide pharmacy care services through our optumrx and unitedhealthcare businesses. each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern the relationships of the business with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies, customers and consumers. optumrx also conducts business through home delivery and specialty pharmacies, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those of the dea and individual state controlled substance authorities. in addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially and adversely affect current industry practices, including potential new regulations regarding the receipt or disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies, the use of average wholesale prices or other pricing benchmarks, pricing for specialty pharmaceuticals and pharmacy network reimbursement methodologies. our pharmacy care services businesses would be materially and adversely affected by our inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and other suppliers, and could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our home delivery or specialty pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. disruptions at any of our home delivery or specialty pharmacies due to an accident or an event that is beyond our control could affect our ability to process and dispense prescriptions in a timely manner and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, our pharmacy care services businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to erisa. a private party or the dol, which is the agency that enforces erisa, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pharmacy care services businesses even where our pharmacy care services businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. in the event a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply to our pharmacy care services businesses in connection with services for which our pharmacy care services businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or claims that we entered into certain prohibited transactions. if we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our businesses compete throughout the united states, brazil and other foreign markets and face significant competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. in particular markets, our competitors, compared to us, may have greater capabilities, resources or market share; a more established reputation; superior supplier or health care professional arrangements; better existing business relationships; lower profit margin or financial return expectations; or other factors that 17 table of contents give such competitors a competitive advantage. in addition, our competitive position may be adversely affected by significant merger and acquisition activity that has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both among our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other care professionals). consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase our customer base, improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or maintain or increase profitability. additionally, new direct-to-consumer business models from competing businesses may make it more difficult for us to directly engage consumers in the selection and management of their health care benefits, health care usage, and in the effective navigation of the health care system we may be challenged by new technologies and market entrants that could disrupt our existing relationship with health plan enrollees in these areas. our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect or declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals and other service providers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and other service providers at competitive prices. any failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain activities related to network design, provider participation in networks and provider payments could result in disputes that may be costly, distract managements' attention and result in negative publicity. in any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. in addition, accountable care organizations; practice management companies (which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency); and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other care providers choose may change the way in which these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape. such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which could adversely affect our operations, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows by impacting our relationships with these providers or affecting the way that we price our products and estimate our costs, which might require us to incur costs to change our operations. in addition, if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. we have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the health care provider. to the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider, under the capitation arrangement. further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts could result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. health care providers with whom we contract may not properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. in those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. in some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances, the amount is either not defined or is established by a standard that does not clearly specify dollar terms. in some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. the success of certain businesses, including optumhealth and unitedhealthcare brazil, depend on maintaining satisfactory physician employment relationships. the physicians that practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. there is and will likely be heightened competition in the markets where we operate to acquire or manage physician practices or to employ or contract with individual physicians. if we are unable to maintain or grow satisfactory relationships with physicians, or to acquire, recruit or, in some instances, employ physicians, or to retain enrollees 18 table of contents following the departure of a physician, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, our affiliated physician organizations contract with health insurance and hmo competitors of unitedhealthcare. our business could suffer if our affiliated physician organizations fail to maintain relationships with these health insurance or hmo companies, or adequately price their contracts with these third-party payers. in addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and certain health care providers are customers of our optum businesses. given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we are routinely subject to various litigation actions due to the nature of our business, which could damage our reputation and, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties or monetary damages and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to, among other matters, the design, management and delivery of our product and service offerings. these matters have included or could in the future include matters related to health care benefits coverage and payment claims (including disputes with enrollees, customers and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort claims (including claims related to the delivery of health care services, such as medical malpractice by health care practitioners who are employed by us, have contractual relationships with us, or serve as providers to our managed care networks), whistleblower claims (including claims under the false claims act or similar statutes), contract and labor disputes, tax claims and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. we are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups and consumers. in addition, we operate in jurisdictions outside of the united states, where contractual rights, tax positions and applicable regulations may be subject to interpretation or uncertainty to a greater degree than in the united states, and therefore subject to dispute by customers, government authorities or others. we are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. although we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. although we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters, it is possible that the level of actual losses will significantly exceed the liabilities recorded. we cannot predict the outcome of significant legal actions in which we are involved and are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. the legal actions we face or may face in the future could further increase our cost of doing business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain legal actions could result in adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our ability to retain our current business or grow our market share in some markets and businesses. any failure by us to manage successfully our strategic alliances or complete, manage or integrate acquisitions and other significant strategic transactions or relationships could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. for example, we have a strategic alliance with aarp under which we provide aarp-branded medicare supplement insurance to aarp members and other aarp-branded products and services to medicare beneficiaries. if we fail to meet the needs of our alliance or joint venture partners, including by developing additional products and services, providing high levels of service, pricing our products and services competitively or responding effectively to applicable federal and state regulatory changes, our alliances and joint ventures could be damaged or terminated, which in turn could adversely impact our reputation, business and results of operations. further, if we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. success in completing acquisitions is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations, including our internal control environment, or otherwise leveraging its operations, which may present challenges that are different from those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult for us to manage. if we cannot successfully integrate these acquisitions and realize contemplated revenue growth opportunities and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. as we expand and operate our business outside of the united states, we are presented with challenges that differ from those presented by acquisitions of domestic businesses, including challenges in adapting to new markets, business, labor and cultural practices and regulatory environments. adapting to these challenges could require us to devote significant senior management and other resources to the acquired businesses before we realize anticipated synergies or other benefits from the acquired businesses. these challenges vary widely by country and may include political instability, government intervention, 19 table of contents discriminatory regulation and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that could prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which our acquired businesses operate or converting local currencies that we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies. if we are unable to manage successfully our non-u.s. acquisitions, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our equity from period to period, which could adversely affect our debt to debt-plus-equity ratio, and our future revenues, costs and cash flows from international operations. any measures we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies may be costly or ineffective. our sales performance will suffer if we do not adequately attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent producers and consultants. our products and services are sold in part through independent producers and consultants with whom we do not have exclusive contracts and for whose services and allegiance we must compete intensely. our sales would be materially and adversely affected if we were unable to attract, retain and support such independent producers and consultants or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. our relationships with producers could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in our business practices and the nature of our relationships to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commissions. a number of investigations have been conducted regarding the marketing practices of producers selling health care products and the payments they receive and have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and producers marketing and selling those companies' products. if we were subjected to similar investigations and enforcement actions, they could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans, which could materially and adversely impact our ability to market our products. unfavorable economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. unfavorable economic conditions may impact demand for certain of our products and services. for example, high unemployment can cause lower enrollment or lower rates of renewal in our employer group plans. unfavorable economic conditions have also caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. in addition, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact our ability to increase premiums or result in the cancellation by certain customers of our products and services. these conditions could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. during a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including medicare, medicaid and chip. a reduction in state medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to apply to payments already negotiated or received from the government and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the affected governments to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and hmos and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims. any of these developments or actions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. a prolonged unfavorable economic environment also could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could materially and adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or materially and adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. further, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the customers of our optum businesses, including health plans, hmos, hospitals, care providers, employers and others, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect optum's financial results. our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which constitute the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of december 31, 2016 . relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have adversely impacted our investment income, and the continuation of the current low interest rate environment could further adversely affect our investment income. in addition, a delay in payment of principal or interest by issuers, or defaults by issuers (primarily from investments in corporate and municipal bonds), could reduce our investment income and require us to write down the value of our investments, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability and equity. there can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than their carrying values. changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, changes in issuer financial conditions, illiquidity or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our equity. in addition, if it 20 table of contents became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, such an action could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of regulated subsidiaries. if the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, equity and credit ratings could be materially and adversely affected. as of december 31, 2016 , goodwill and other intangible assets had a carrying value of $56 billion , representing 46% of our total consolidated assets. we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. the value of our goodwill may be materially and adversely impacted if businesses that we acquire perform in a manner that is inconsistent with our assumptions. in addition, from time to time we divest businesses, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. a material decrease in equity could, in turn, adversely impact our credit ratings and potentially impact our compliance with the covenants in our bank credit facilities. if we fail to maintain properly the integrity or availability of our data or successfully consolidate, integrate, upgrade or expand our existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our ability to price adequately our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to report accurately our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. we periodically consolidate, integrate, upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities as a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions. in addition, recent trends toward greater consumer engagement in health care require new and enhanced technologies, including more sophisticated applications for mobile devices. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses is found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, experience problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, become subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology may not be successful. failure to protect, consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our businesses sell and install software products that may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. connectivity among competing technologies is becoming increasingly important in the health care industry. a failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. uncertain and rapidly evolving u.s. federal and state, non-u.s. and international laws and regulations related to the health information technology market may present compliance challenges and could materially and adversely affect the configuration of our information systems and platforms, and our ability to compete in this market. if we sustain cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents, that result in security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the unintended dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences. we routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data in our operations, including sensitive personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or third-parties. some of the data we process, store and transmit may be outside of the united states due to our information technology systems and international business operations. we may be subject to breaches of the information technology systems we use. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our layered security controls and misappropriate or compromise sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. they also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. our facilities may also be vulnerable to security incidents or security attacks; acts of vandalism or 21 table of contents theft; coordinated attacks by activist entities; misplaced or lost data; human errors; or other similar events that could negatively affect our systems and our and our customer's data. the costs to eliminate or address the foregoing security threats and vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary information or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose our customers' private information and our customers to the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. if we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases, software and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our regulated subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. many of these subsidiaries are regulated by departments of insurance or similar regulatory authorities. we are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium revenues generated by the applicable subsidiary. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. an inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies in the desired amounts or at the time of our choosing could adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, as well as our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment, repurchase shares of our common stock and repay our debt. if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. any downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. claims paying ability, financial strength and debt ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used by customers and creditors. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically. our ratings reflect each credit rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. there can be no assurance that our current credit ratings will be maintained in the future. downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, could materially increase our costs of or ability to access funds in the debt and capital markets and otherwise materially increase our operating costs. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risks are exposures to changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and interest expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt, as well as foreign currency exchange rate risk of the u.s. dollar primarily to the brazilian real. as of december 31, 2016, we had $13.2 billion of financial assets on which the interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may materially impact our investment income. also as of december 31, 2016, $12.4 billion of our financial liabilities, which include commercial paper, debt and deposit liabilities, were at interest rates that vary with market rates, either directly or through the use of related interest rate swap contracts. the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. as of december 31, 2016, $21.9 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities and $25.2 billion of our debt was non-swapped fixed-rate term debt. an increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. we manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed income market sectors and debt across maturities, as well as by endeavoring to match our floating-rate assets and liabilities over time, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap contracts. unrealized gains and losses on investments in available-for-sale securities are reported in comprehensive income. the following tables summarize the impact of hypothetical changes in market interest rates across the entire yield curve by 1% point or 2% points as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 on our investment income and interest expense per annum and the fair value of our investments and debt (in millions, except percentages): december 31, 2016 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of financial assets (b) fair value of financial liabilities 2 % $ 263 $ 245 $ (1,711 ) $ (3,470 ) 1 132 122 (873 ) (1,860 ) (1) (105 ) (95 ) 855 2,244 (2) nm nm 1,562 4,784 december 31, 2015 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of financial assets (b) fair value of financial liabilities 2% $ 258 $ 257 $ (1,388 ) $ (3,233 ) 1 129 128 (702 ) (1,746 ) (1) (80 ) (55 ) 677 2,085 (2) nm nm 1,132 4,442 nm = not meaningful 40 table of contents (a) given the low absolute level of short-term market rates on our floating-rate assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, the assumed hypothetical change in interest rates does not reflect the full 100 basis point reduction in interest income or interest expense as the rate cannot fall below zero and thus the 200 basis point reduction is not meaningful. (b) as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, some of our investments had interest rates below 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in the fair value of investments does not reflect the full 200 basis point reduction. we have an exposure to changes in the value of the brazilian real to the u.s. dollar in translation of unitedhealthcare brazil's operating results at the average exchange rate over the accounting period, and unitedhealthcare brazil's assets and liabilities at the spot rate at the end of the accounting period. the gains or losses resulting from translating foreign assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars are included in equity and comprehensive income. an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real reduces the carrying value of the net assets denominated in brazilian real. for example, as of december 31, 2016, a hypothetical 10% and 25% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real would have caused a reduction in net assets of approximately $400 million and $900 million, respectively. we manage exposure to foreign currency earnings risk by conducting our international business operations primarily in their functional currencies. as of december 31, 2016, we had $2.0 billion of investments in equity securities, consisting of investments in non-u.s. dollar fixed-income funds; employee savings plan related investments; venture capital funds; and dividend paying stocks. valuations in non-u.s. dollar funds are subject to foreign exchange rates. valuations in venture capital funds are subject to conditions affecting health care and technology stocks and dividend paying equities are subject to more general market conditions. 41 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors cautionary statements the statements, estimates, projections or outlook contained in this annual report on form 10-k include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (pslra). when used in this annual report on form 10-k and in future filings by us with the sec, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, forecast, outlook, plan, project, should or similar words or phrases are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. these statements are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the pslra. these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement in this report speaks only as of the date of this report and, except as required by law; we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date of this report. the following discussion contains cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. we do not undertake to address in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations how any of these factors may have caused our results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. in addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. any or all forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. our forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors discussed below will be important in determining our future results. by their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. if we fail to estimate, price for and manage our medical costs in an effective manner, the profitability of our risk-based products and services could decline and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. through our risk-based benefit products, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. premium revenues from risk-based benefits products comprise nearly 80% of our total consolidated revenues. we generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. the profitability of our products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for and effectively manage medical costs. in this regard, federal and state regulatory requirements obligate our commercial, medicare advantage and certain state-based medicaid health plans to maintain minimum mlrs, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain price increases for our products. in addition, our optumhealth business negotiates capitation arrangements with commercial third-party payers. under the typical capitation arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of a third-party payer's premiums to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the 13 table of contents capitated member. if we fail to predict accurately, price for or manage the costs of providing care to our capitated members, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered, the cost of each service and the type of service rendered. our premium revenue on commercial policies and medicaid contracts are typically based on a fixed monthly rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to six months before the contract commences. our revenue on medicare policies is based on bids submitted to cms in june the year before the contract year. although we base the commercial and medicaid premiums we charge and our medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period, many factors may cause actual costs to exceed those estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. these factors may include medical cost inflation, increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, natural catastrophes or other large-scale medical emergencies, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly drugs, treatments and technology, new treatment guidelines, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of essential benefits coverage) or other regulatory changes and insured population characteristics. relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. for example, if our 2017 medical costs for commercial insured products were 1% higher, without proportionally higher revenues from such products, our annual net earnings for 2017 would have been reduced by approximately $235 million, excluding any offsetting impact from risk adjustment or from reduced premium rebates due to minimum mlrs. in addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. these estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. if these estimates prove inaccurate, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our business activities are highly regulated and new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially and adversely affect our business. we are regulated by federal, state and local governments in the united states and other countries where we do business. our insurance and hmo subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. for example, states require periodic financial reports and enforce minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations and some of our activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including those relating to ppos, mcos, ur and tpa-related regulations and licensure requirements. some of our unitedhealthcare and optum businesses hold government contracts or provide services related to government contracts and are subject to u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. self-referral, anti-kickback, medical necessity, risk adjustment, false claims and other laws and regulations governing government contractors and the use of government funds. in addition, under state guaranty association laws, certain insurance companies can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of impaired or insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or similar lines of business. some states have similar laws relating to hmos and other payers such as consumer operated and oriented plans (co-ops) established under the aca. any such assessment could expose our insurance entities and other insurers to the risk of paying a portion of an impaired or insolvent insurance company's claims through state guaranty associations. certain of our businesses provide products or services to various government agencies. our relationships with these government agencies are subject to the terms of contracts that we hold with the agencies and to laws and regulations regarding government contracts. among others, certain laws and regulations restrict or prohibit companies from performing work for government agencies that might be viewed as an actual or potential conflict of interest. these laws may limit our ability to pursue and perform certain types of work, thereby materially and adversely affecting our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our optum businesses are also subject to regulations that are distinct from those faced by our insurance and hmo subsidiaries, including, for example, state telemedicine regulations; debt collection laws; banking regulations; distributor and producer licensing requirements; state corporate practice of medicine doctrines; fee-splitting rules; and health care facility licensure and certificate of need requirements, some of which could impact our relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. these risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our ability to market or provide our products and services, or to do so at targeted operating margins, or may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate. the laws and rules governing our businesses and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. for example, legislative, administrative and public policy changes to the aca are being debated, and we cannot predict if the aca will be further modified or repealed or replaced. additionally, the integration into our businesses of entities that we acquire may affect the way in which existing laws and rules apply to us, including subjecting us to laws and rules that did not previously apply to us. the broad latitude given to the agencies administering, interpreting and enforcing current and future regulations governing our businesses could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our 14 table of contents health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, or expose us to increased liability in courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. we also must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products and services, increase prices for certain regulated products and services and complete certain acquisitions and dispositions or integrate certain acquisitions. for example, premium rates for our health insurance and managed care products are subject to regulatory review or approval in many states and by the federal government. additionally, we must submit data on all proposed rate increases on many of our products to hhs for monitoring purposes. geographic and product expansions may be subject to state and federal regulatory approvals. delays in obtaining necessary approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain adequate approvals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our businesses operate internationally and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or conduct business. these regulatory regimes encompass, among other matters, local and cross-border taxation, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, investment, capital (including minimum solvency margin and reserve requirements), management control, labor, anti-fraud, anti-corruption and privacy and data protection regulations (including requirements for cross-border data transfers) that vary by jurisdiction. we currently operate outside of the united states and in the future may acquire or commence additional businesses based outside of the united states, increasing our exposure to non-u.s. regulatory regimes. for example, our unitedhealthcare brazil business subjects us to brazilian laws and regulations affecting hospitals, managed care and insurance industries and to regulation by brazilian regulators, including the national regulatory agency for private health insurance and plans, the ag ncia nacional de sa de suplementar, whose approach to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of industry regulations could differ from the approach taken by u.s. regulators. in addition, our non-u.s. businesses and operations are subject to u.s. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of u.s.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the fcpa, which prohibits offering, promising, providing or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage. our failure to comply with u.s. or non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the united states or to establish constructive relations with non-u.s. regulators could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted operating margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the health care industry is also regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of governmental investigations, adverse media coverage and political debate surrounding industry regulation. negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation in various markets. as a result of our participation in various government health care programs, both as a payer and as a service provider to payers, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments, audits and government investigations that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we participate in various federal, state and local government health care benefit programs, including as a payer in medicare advantage, medicare part d, various medicaid programs and chip, and receive substantial revenues from these programs. certain of our optum businesses also provide services to payers participating in government health care programs. a reduction or less than expected increase, or a protracted delay, in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies, or, as is a typical feature of many government contracts, termination of the contract at the option of the government, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the government health care programs in which we participate generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible for coverage, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, reduce our participation in certain service areas or markets, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. revenues for these programs depend on periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. funding for these government programs depends on many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level. for example cms has in the past reduced or frozen medicare advantage benchmarks, and additional cuts to medicare advantage benchmarks are possible. in addition, from time to time, cms makes changes to the way it calculates medicare advantage risk adjustment payments. although we have adjusted members' benefits and premiums on a selective basis, ceased to offer benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to the benchmark reductions and other funding pressures, these or other strategies may not fully address the funding pressures in the medicare advantage program. in addition, payers in the medicare advantage program may be subject to reductions in payments from cms as a result of decreased funding or recoupment pursuant to government audit. under the medicaid managed care program, state medicaid agencies seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care medicaid health programs. if we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state medicaid managed care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those medicaid plans. under the medicare part d program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a 15 table of contents regional benchmark, which is calculated by the government after all regional bids are submitted. if the enrollee premium is not below the government benchmark, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. in general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs and other factors. if any of these assumptions is materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the programs on which we bid, or submission by our competitors at lower rates than our bids, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. many of the government health care coverage programs in which we participate are subject to the prior satisfaction of certain conditions or performance standards or benchmarks. for example, as part of the aca, cms has a system that provides various quality bonus payments to medicare advantage plans that meet certain quality star ratings at the local plan level. the star rating system considers various measures adopted by cms, including, among others, quality of care, preventive services, chronic illness management and customer satisfaction. plans must have a rating of four stars or higher to qualify for bonus payments. if we do not maintain or continue to improve our star ratings, our plans may not be eligible for quality bonuses and we may experience a negative impact on our revenues and the benefits that our plans can offer, which could materially and adversely affect the marketability of our plans, our membership levels, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. any changes in standards or care delivery models that apply to government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, or our inability to improve our quality scores and star ratings to meet government performance requirements or to match the performance of our competitors could result in limitations to our participation in or exclusion from these or other government programs, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. cms uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for medicare programs, including adjustment of monthly capitation payments to medicare advantage plans and medicare part d plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers for medicare advantage plans, as well as, for medicare part d plans, risk-sharing provisions based on a comparison of costs predicted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs. some state medicaid programs utilize a similar process. for example, our unitedhealthcare medicare &amp; retirement and unitedhealthcare community &amp; state businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to cms or state agencies for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. cms and the office of inspector general for hhs periodically perform risk adjustment data validation (radv) audits of selected medicare health plans to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers. certain of our local plans have been selected for such audits, which have in the past resulted and could in the future result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans, fines, corrective action plans or other adverse action by cms. we have been and may in the future become involved in routine, regular and special governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments. for example, various governmental agencies have conducted investigations into certain pbm practices, which have resulted in other pbms agreeing to civil penalties, including the payment of money and corporate integrity agreements. additionally, such investigations, audits or reviews sometimes arise out of or prompt claims by private litigants or whistleblowers that, among other allegations, we failed to disclose certain business practices or, as a government contractor, submitted false or erroneous claims to the government. governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments could lead to government actions, which could result in adverse publicity, the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. if we sustain cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents that result in security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the unintended dissemination of protected personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences. we routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data in our operations, including protected personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or third-parties. some of the data we process, store and transmit may be outside of the united states due to our information technology systems and international business operations. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber-attacks and other security threats and may be subject to breaches of the information technology systems we use. we have programs in place to detect, contain and respond to data security incidents and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware and other cyber risks to protect, to the greatest extent possible, against cyber risks and security breaches. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our layered security controls and misappropriate or compromise protected personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause system shutdowns. they also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third 16 table of contents parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. our facilities may also be vulnerable to security incidents or security attacks; acts of vandalism or theft; coordinated attacks by activist entities; misplaced or lost data; human errors; or other similar events that could negatively affect our systems and our customer's data. the costs to eliminate or address the foregoing security threats and vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be material. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information, proprietary information or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose our customers' private information and our customers to the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. if we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security and data laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize protected personal information on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of protected personal information are regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers. these laws, rules and requirements are subject to change. compliance with new privacy and security laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain or require us to alter our business model or operations. for example, the hitech amendments to hipaa imposed further restrictions on our ability to collect, disclose and use protected personal information and imposed additional compliance requirements on our business. internationally, many of the jurisdictions in which we operate have established their own data security and privacy legal framework with which we or our customers must comply. we expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection and information security in the european union and other jurisdictions, and we cannot yet determine the impacts such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our businesses or the businesses of our customers. for example, in may 2018, the european union's general data protection regulation will overhaul data protection laws in the european union. the new regulation will supersede current european union data protection legislation, may impose more stringent european union data protection requirements on us or our customers, and may prescribe greater penalties for noncompliance. many of our businesses are also subject to the payment card industry data security standard, which is a multifaceted security standard that is designed to protect credit card account data as mandated by payment card industry entities. hipaa requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. while we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. several of our businesses act as business associates to their covered entity customers and, as a result, collect, use, disclose and maintain protected personal information in order to provide services to these customers. hhs has announced that it will continue its audit program to assess hipaa compliance efforts by covered entities and expand it to include business associates. an audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. through our optum businesses, including our optum labs business, we maintain a database of administrative and clinical data that is statistically de-identified in accordance with hipaa standards. noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of protected personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business, including mandatory disclosure to the media, loss of existing or new customers, significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents and material fines, penalties and litigation awards, among other consequences, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our businesses providing pharmacy care services face regulatory and operational risks and uncertainties that may differ from the risks of our other businesses. we provide pharmacy care services through our optumrx and unitedhealthcare businesses. each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback beneficiary inducement and other laws that govern the relationships of the business with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies, customers and consumers. as a provider of pharmacy benefit management services, optumrx is also subject to an increasing number of licensure, registration and other laws and accreditation standards that impact the business practices of a pharmacy benefit manager. optumrx also conducts business through home delivery, specialty pharmacies and home infusion, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including 17 table of contents those of the dea and individual state controlled substance authorities, the fda and boards of pharmacy. in addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially and adversely affect current industry practices, including potential new legislation and regulations regarding the receipt or disclosure of rebates and other fees from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies and other utilization management tools, the use of average wholesale prices or other pricing benchmarks, pricing for specialty pharmaceuticals, limited access to networks and pharmacy network reimbursement methodologies. we could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our home delivery or specialty pharmacies or the provision of home infusion services, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. disruptions from any of our home delivery, specialty pharmacy or home infusion services could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, our pharmacy care services businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to erisa. a private party or the dol, which is the agency that enforces erisa, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pharmacy care services businesses even where our pharmacy care services businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. if a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply to our pharmacy care services businesses in connection with services for which our pharmacy care services businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or claims that we entered into certain prohibited transactions. if we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our businesses compete throughout the united states, south america and other foreign markets and face significant competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. in particular markets, our competitors, compared to us, may have greater capabilities, resources or market share; a more established reputation; superior supplier or health care professional arrangements; better existing business relationships; lower profit margin or financial return expectations; or other factors that give such competitors a competitive advantage. our competitive position may also be adversely affected by significant merger and acquisition activity that has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both among our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other health care professionals). consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase our customer base, improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or maintain or increase profitability. in addition, new direct-to-consumer business models from competing businesses may make it more difficult for us to directly engage consumers in the selection and management of their health care benefits and health care usage, and we may face challenges from new technologies and market entrants that could disrupt our existing relationship with health plan enrollees in these areas. our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect or declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals and other service providers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and other service providers at competitive prices. any failure by us to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain activities related to network design, provider participation in networks and provider payments could result in disputes that may be costly, divert management's attention from our operations and result in negative publicity. in any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. in addition, accountable care organizations; practice management companies (which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency) and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other care providers choose may change the way in which these providers do business with us and may change the competitive landscape. such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which could adversely affect our operations, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows by impacting our relationships with these providers or affecting the way that we price our products and estimate our costs, which might require us to incur costs to change our 18 table of contents operations. in addition, if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. we have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the health care provider. to the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider, under the capitation arrangement. further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts could result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. health care providers with which we contract may not properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. in those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. in some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances the amount is either not defined or is established by a standard that does not clearly specify dollar terms. in some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. the success of some of our businesses, including optumhealth and unitedhealthcare brazil, depend on maintaining satisfactory physician relationships as employees, independent contractors or joint venture partners. the physicians that practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. there is and will likely be heightened competition in the markets where we operate to acquire or manage physician practices or to employ or contract with individual physicians. if we are unable to maintain or grow satisfactory relationships with physicians, or to acquire, recruit or, in some instances, employ physicians, or to retain enrollees following the departure of a physician, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, our affiliated physician organizations contract with health insurance and hmo competitors of unitedhealthcare. our businesses could suffer if our affiliated physician organizations fail to maintain relationships with these health insurance or hmo companies, or fail to adequately price their contracts with these third-party payers. in addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and certain health care providers are customers of our optum businesses. physicians also provide medical services at facilities owned by our optum businesses. given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we are routinely subject to various litigation actions due to the nature of our business, which could damage our reputation and, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties or monetary damages and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to, among other matters, the design, management and delivery of our product and service offerings. these matters have included or could in the future include matters related to health care benefits coverage and payment claims (including disputes with enrollees, customers and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort claims (including claims related to the delivery of health care services, such as medical malpractice by staff at our affiliates' facilities, or by health care practitioners who are employed by us, have contractual relationships with us, or serve as providers to our managed care networks), whistleblower claims (including claims under the false claims act or similar statutes), contract and labor disputes, tax claims and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. we are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups and consumers. in addition, we operate in jurisdictions outside of the united states, where contractual rights, tax positions and applicable regulations may be subject to interpretation or uncertainty to a greater degree than in the united states, and therefore subject to dispute by customers, government authorities or others. we are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. while we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. although we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters, it is possible that the level of actual losses will significantly exceed the liabilities recorded. we cannot predict the outcome of significant legal actions in which we are involved and are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. the legal actions we face or may face in the future could further increase our cost of doing business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain legal actions 19 table of contents could result in adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our ability to retain our current business or grow our market share in some markets and businesses. any failure by us to manage successfully our strategic alliances or complete, manage or integrate acquisitions and other significant strategic transactions or relationships domestically or outside the united states could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. for example, we have a strategic alliance with aarp under which we provide aarp-branded medicare supplement insurance to aarp members and other aarp-branded products and services to medicare beneficiaries. if we fail to meet the needs of our alliance or joint venture partners, including by developing additional products and services, providing high levels of service, pricing our products and services competitively or responding effectively to applicable federal and state regulatory changes, our alliances and joint ventures could be damaged or terminated, which in turn could adversely impact our reputation, business and results of operations. further, if we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. success in completing acquisitions is also dependent on efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations, including our internal control environment, or otherwise leveraging its operations, which may present challenges that are different from those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult for us to manage. if we cannot successfully integrate these acquisitions and realize contemplated revenue growth opportunities and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. as we expand and operate our business outside of the united states, we are presented with challenges that differ from those presented by acquisitions of domestic businesses, including challenges in adapting to new markets, languages, business, labor and cultural practices and regulatory environments. adapting to these challenges could require us to devote significant senior management and other resources to the acquired businesses before we realize anticipated synergies or other benefits from the acquired businesses. these challenges vary widely by country and may include political instability, government intervention, discriminatory regulation and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that could prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which our acquired businesses operate or converting local currencies that we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies. if we are unable to manage successfully our non-u.s. acquisitions, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our shareholders' equity from period to period, which could adversely affect our debt to debt-plus-equity ratio, and our future revenues, costs and cash flows from international operations. any measures we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies may be costly or ineffective. our sales performance will suffer if we do not adequately attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent producers and consultants. our products and services are sold in part through nonexclusive producers and consultants for whose services and allegiance we must compete intensely. our sales would be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to attract, retain and support such independent producers and consultants or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. our relationships with producers could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in our business practices and the nature of our relationships to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commission levels. a number of investigations have been conducted regarding the marketing practices of producers selling health care products and the payments they receive and have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and producers marketing and selling those companies' products. if we were subjected to similar investigations and enforcement actions, such actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans, which could materially and adversely impact our ability to market our products. unfavorable economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. unfavorable economic conditions may impact demand for certain of our products and services. for example, high unemployment can cause lower enrollment or lower rates of renewal in our employer group plans. unfavorable economic conditions also have caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. in addition, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact our ability to increase premiums or result in the cancellation by certain customers of our products and services. these conditions could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 20 table of contents during a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including medicare, medicaid and chip. a reduction in state medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to apply to payments already negotiated or received from the government and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the affected governments to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and hmos and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims. any of these developments or actions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. a prolonged unfavorable economic environment also could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could materially and adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or materially and adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. further, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the customers of our optum businesses, including health plans, hmos, hospitals, care providers, employers and others, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect optum's financial results. our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which constitute the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of december 31, 2017 . relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have adversely impacted our investment income, and the continuation of the current low interest rate environment could further adversely affect our investment income. in addition, a delay in payment of principal or interest by issuers, or defaults by issuers (primarily issuers of our investments in corporate and municipal bonds), could reduce our investment income and require us to write down the value of our investments, which could adversely affect our profitability and equity. there can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than their carrying values. changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, changes in issuer financial conditions, illiquidity or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our equity. in addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, such an action could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of regulated subsidiaries. if the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, equity and credit ratings could be materially and adversely affected. as of december 31, 2017 , goodwill and other intangible assets had a carrying value of $63 billion , representing 45% of our total consolidated assets. we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. the value of our goodwill may be materially and adversely impacted if businesses that we acquire perform in a manner that is inconsistent with our assumptions. in addition, from time to time we divest businesses, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. a material decrease in equity could, in turn, adversely impact our credit ratings and potentially impact our compliance with the covenants in our bank credit facilities. if we fail to maintain properly the integrity or availability of our data or successfully consolidate, integrate, upgrade or expand our existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our ability to price adequately our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to report accurately our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. we periodically consolidate, integrate, upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities as a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions. in addition, recent trends toward greater consumer engagement in health care require new and enhanced technologies, including more sophisticated applications for mobile devices. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses is found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, experience problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, become subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse 21 table of contents consequences. our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology may not be successful. failure to protect, consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our businesses sell and install software products that may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. connectivity among competing technologies is becoming increasingly important in the health care industry. a failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. uncertain and rapidly evolving u.s. federal and state, non-u.s. and international laws and regulations related to the health information technology market may present compliance challenges and could materially and adversely affect the configuration of our information systems and platforms, and our ability to compete in this market. if we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases, software and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our regulated subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent on dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. many of these subsidiaries are regulated by departments of insurance or similar regulatory authorities. we are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily on the volume of premium revenues generated by the applicable subsidiary. in most states, we are required to seek approval by state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. an inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies in the desired amounts or at the time of our choosing could adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, as well as our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment, repurchase shares of our common stock and repay our debt. if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. any downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. claims paying ability, financial strength and debt ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used by customers and creditors. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically. our ratings reflect each credit rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. there can be no assurance that our current credit ratings will be maintained in the future. any downgrades in our credit ratings could materially increase our costs of or ability to access funds in the debt capital markets and otherwise materially increase our operating costs. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risks are exposures to changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and interest expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt, as well as foreign currency exchange rate risk of the u.s. dollar primarily to the brazilian real. as of december 31, 2017, we had $15 billion of financial assets on which the interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may materially impact our investment income. also as of december 31, 2017, $8.5 billion of our financial liabilities, which include commercial paper, debt and deposit liabilities, were at interest rates that vary with market rates, either directly or through the use of related interest rate swap contracts. 37 table of contents the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. as of december 31, 2017, $25.9 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities and $28.7 billion of our debt was non-swapped fixed-rate term debt. an increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. we manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed-income market sectors and debt across maturities, as well as by endeavoring to match our floating-rate assets and liabilities over time, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap contracts. unrealized gains and losses on investments in available-for-sale securities are reported in comprehensive income. the following tables summarize the impact of hypothetical changes in market interest rates across the entire yield curve by 1% point or 2% points as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 on our investment income and interest expense per annum and the fair value of our investments and debt (in millions, except percentages): december 31, 2017 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of financial assets (b) fair value of financial liabilities 2 % $ 300 $ 170 $ (1,958 ) $ (4,546 ) 1 150 85 (933 ) (2,460 ) (1) (150 ) (85 ) 950 2,923 (2) (197 ) (133 ) 1,773 6,414 december 31, 2016 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of financial assets (b) fair value of financial liabilities 2% $ 263 $ 245 $ (1,711 ) $ (3,470 ) 1 132 122 (873 ) (1,860 ) (1) (105 ) (95 ) 855 2,244 (2) nm nm 1,562 4,784 nm = not meaningful (a) given the low absolute level of short-term market rates on our floating-rate assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2017 and 2016, the assumed hypothetical change in interest rates does not reflect the full 100 and 200 basis point reduction, respectively, in interest income or interest expense, in 2017 and 2016, respectively, as the rate cannot fall below zero. (b) as of december 31, 2017 and 2016, some of our investments had interest rates below 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in the fair value of investments does not reflect the full 200 basis point reduction. we have an exposure to changes in the value of the brazilian real to the u.s. dollar in translation of unitedhealthcare brazil's operating results at the average exchange rate over the accounting period, and unitedhealthcare brazil's assets and liabilities at the spot rate at the end of the accounting period. the gains or losses resulting from translating foreign assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars are included in equity and comprehensive income. an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real reduces the carrying value of the net assets denominated in brazilian real. for example, as of december 31, 2017, a hypothetical 10% and 25% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real would have caused a reduction in net assets of approximately $500 million and $1.1 billion, respectively. we manage exposure to foreign currency earnings risk primarily by conducting our international business operations in their functional currencies. as of december 31, 2017, we had $2.0 billion of investments in equity securities, consisting of investments in non-u.s. dollar fixed-income funds; employee savings plan related investments; and dividend paying stocks. valuations in non-u.s. dollar funds are subject to foreign exchange rates. 38 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors cautionary statements the statements, estimates, projections or outlook contained in this annual report on form 10-k include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (pslra). when used in this annual report on form 10-k and in future filings by us with the sec, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words believe, expect, 12 table of contents intend, estimate, anticipate, forecast, outlook, plan, project, should or similar words or phrases are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. these statements are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the pslra. these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement in this report speaks only as of the date of this report and, except as required by law; we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date of this report. the following discussion contains cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. we do not undertake to address in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations how any of these factors may have caused our results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. in addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. any or all forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. our forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors discussed below will be important in determining our future results. by their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. if we fail to estimate, price for and manage our medical costs in an effective manner, the profitability of our risk-based products and services could decline and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. through our risk-based benefit products, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. premium revenues from risk-based benefits products comprise nearly 80% of our total consolidated revenues. we generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. the profitability of our products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for and effectively manage medical costs. in addition, our optumhealth business negotiates capitation arrangements with commercial third-party payers. under the typical capitation arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of a third-party payer's premiums to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the capitated member. if we fail to predict accurately, or effectively price for or manage the costs of providing care to our capitated members, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered, the cost of each service and the type of service rendered. our premium revenue on commercial policies and medicaid contracts are typically based on a fixed monthly rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to six months before the contract commences. our revenue on medicare policies is based on bids submitted to cms in june the year before the contract year. although we base the commercial and medicaid premiums we charge and our medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period, many factors may cause actual costs to exceed those estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. these factors may include medical cost inflation, increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, large-scale medical emergencies, the introduction of new or costly drugs, treatments and technology, new treatment guidelines, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of essential benefits coverage) or other regulatory changes and insured population characteristics. relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. for example, if our 2018 medical costs for commercial insured products had been 1% higher than our actual medical costs, without proportionally higher revenues from such products, our annual net earnings for 2018 would have been reduced by approximately $305 million, excluding any offsetting impact from risk adjustment or from reduced premium rebates due to minimum mlrs. in addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. these estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. if these estimates prove inaccurate, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our business activities are highly regulated and new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially and adversely affect our business. we are regulated by federal, state and local governments in the united states and other countries where we do business. our insurance and hmo subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. for example, states require periodic financial reports and enforce minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations and some of our activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including those relating to ppos, mcos, ur and tpa-related regulations and licensure requirements. under state guaranty association laws, certain insurance companies can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of impaired or insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or similar lines of business. any such assessment could 13 table of contents expose our insurance entities and other insurers to the risk that they would be required to pay a portion of an impaired or insolvent insurance company's claims through state guaranty associations. certain of our businesses provide products or services to various government agencies. for example, some of our unitedhealthcare and optum businesses hold government contracts or provide services related to government contracts and are subject to u.s. federal and state and non u.s. self-referral, anti-kickback, medical necessity, risk adjustment, false claims and other laws and regulations governing government contractors and the use of government funds. our relationships with these government agencies are subject to the terms of contracts that we hold with the agencies and to laws and regulations regarding government contracts. among others, certain laws and regulations restrict or prohibit companies from performing work for government agencies that might be viewed as an actual or potential conflict of interest. these laws may limit our ability to pursue and perform certain types of work, thereby materially and adversely affecting our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our optum businesses are also subject to regulations that are distinct from those faced by our insurance and hmo subsidiaries, including, for example, state telemedicine regulations; debt collection laws; banking regulations; distributor and producer licensing requirements; state corporate practice of medicine doctrines; fee-splitting rules; and health care facility licensure and certificate of need requirements, some of which could impact our relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. these risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our ability to market or provide our products and services, or to do so at targeted operating margins, or may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate. the laws and rules governing our businesses and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. for example, legislative, administrative and public policy changes to the aca are being considered, and we cannot predict if the aca will be further modified or repealed or replaced. litigation challenges have been brought seeking to invalidate the aca in whole or in part; and a federal district court struck down the aca in its entirety as unconstitutional in 2018. that opinion has been stayed and appealed. further, the integration into our businesses of entities that we acquire may affect the way in which existing laws and rules apply to us, including by subjecting us to laws and rules that did not previously apply to us. the broad latitude given to the agencies administering, interpreting and enforcing current and future regulations governing our businesses could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, or expose us to increased liability in courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. we also must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products and services, increase prices for certain regulated products and services and complete certain acquisitions and dispositions or integrate certain acquisitions. for example, premium rates for our health insurance and managed care products are subject to regulatory review or approval in many states and by the federal government. additionally, we must submit data on all proposed rate increases on many of our products to hhs for monitoring purposes. geographic and product expansions may be subject to state and federal regulatory approvals. delays in obtaining necessary approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain adequate approvals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our businesses operate internationally and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or conduct business. these regulatory regimes encompass, among other matters, local and cross-border taxation, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, investment, capital (including minimum solvency margin and reserve requirements), management control, labor, anti-fraud, anti-corruption and privacy and data protection regulations (including requirements for cross-border data transfers) that vary by jurisdiction. we currently operate outside of the united states and in the future may acquire or commence additional businesses based outside of the united states, increasing our exposure to non-u.s. regulatory regimes. for example, our unitedhealthcare global business subjects us to brazilian laws and regulations affecting hospitals, managed care and insurance industries and to regulation by brazilian regulators, including the national regulatory agency for private health insurance and plans, the ag ncia nacional de sa de suplementar, while the banm dica business is subject to chilean, colombian and peruvian laws, regulations and regulators applicable to hospitals and private insurance. any international regulator may take an approach to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of industry regulations that could differ from the approach taken by u.s. regulators. in addition, our non-u.s. businesses and operations are subject to u.s. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of u.s.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the fcpa, which prohibits offering, promising, providing or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage. our failure to comply with u.s. or non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the united states or to establish constructive relations with non-u.s. regulators could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted operating margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the health care industry is regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of governmental investigations, adverse media coverage and political debate surrounding industry regulation. negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation in various markets. 14 table of contents as a result of our participation in various government health care programs, both as a payer and as a service provider to payers, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments, audits and government investigations that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we participate in various federal, state and local government health care benefit programs, including as a payer in medicare advantage, medicare part d, various medicaid programs and chip, and receive substantial revenues from these programs. certain of our optum businesses also provide services to payers participating in government health care programs. a reduction or less than expected increase, or a protracted delay, in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies, or termination of the contract at the option of the government, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the government health care programs in which we participate generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible for coverage, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, reduce our participation in certain service areas or markets, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. revenues for these programs depend on periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. funding for these government programs depends on many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level. for example, cms has in the past reduced or frozen medicare advantage benchmarks, and additional cuts to medicare advantage benchmarks are possible. in addition, from time to time, cms makes changes to the way it calculates medicare advantage risk adjustment payments. although we have adjusted members' benefits and premiums on a selective basis, ceased to offer benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to the benchmark reductions and other funding pressures, these or other strategies may not fully address the funding pressures in the medicare advantage program. in addition, payers in the medicare advantage program may be subject to reductions in payments from cms as a result of decreased funding or recoupment pursuant to government audit. under the medicaid managed care program, state medicaid agencies seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care medicaid health programs. if we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state medicaid managed care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those medicaid plans. under the medicare part d program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a regional benchmark, which is calculated by the government after all regional bids are submitted. if the enrollee premium is not below the government benchmark, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. in general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs and other factors. if any of these assumptions is materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the programs on which we bid, or submission by our competitors at lower rates than our bids, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. many of the government health care coverage programs in which we participate are subject to the prior satisfaction of certain conditions or performance standards or benchmarks. for example, as part of the aca, cms has a system that provides various quality bonus payments to medicare advantage plans that meet certain quality star ratings at the individual plan or local contract level. the star rating system considers various measures adopted by cms, including, among others, quality of care, preventive services, chronic illness management and customer satisfaction. plans must have a rating of four stars or higher to qualify for bonus payments. if we do not maintain or continue to improve our star ratings, our plans may not be eligible for quality bonuses and we may experience a negative impact on our revenues and the benefits that our plans can offer, which could materially and adversely affect the marketability of our plans, our membership levels, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. any changes in standards or care delivery models that apply to government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, or our inability to improve our quality scores and star ratings to meet government performance requirements or to match the performance of our competitors could result in limitations to our participation in or exclusion from these or other government programs, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. cms uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for medicare programs, including adjustment of monthly capitation payments to medicare advantage plans and medicare part d plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers for medicare advantage plans, as well as, for medicare part d plans, risk-sharing provisions based on a comparison of costs predicted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs. some state medicaid programs utilize a similar process. for example, our unitedhealthcare medicare &amp; retirement and unitedhealthcare community &amp; state businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to cms or state agencies for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. cms and the office of inspector general for hhs periodically perform risk adjustment data validation (radv) audits of selected medicare health plans to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers. certain of our local plans have been selected for such audits, which have in the past resulted and could in the future result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans, fines, corrective action plans or other adverse action by cms. 15 table of contents we have been and may in the future become involved in routine, regular and special governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments. for example, various governmental agencies have conducted investigations into certain pbm practices, which have resulted in other pbms agreeing to civil penalties, including the payment of money and corporate integrity agreements. additionally, such investigations, audits or reviews sometimes arise out of, or prompt claims by private litigants or whistleblowers that, among other allegations, we failed to disclose certain business practices or, as a government contractor, submitted false or erroneous claims to the government. governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments could lead to government actions, which could result in adverse publicity, the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. if we sustain cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents that result in security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the unintended dissemination of protected personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences. we routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data in our operations, including protected personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or third parties. some of the data we process, store and transmit may be outside of the united states due to our information technology systems and international business operations. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber-attacks and other security threats and may be subject to breaches of the information technology systems we use. we have programs in place that are intended to detect, contain and respond to data security incidents and that provide employee awareness training regarding phishing, malware and other cyber risks to protect against cyber risks and security breaches. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our security controls and access, misappropriate or otherwise compromise protected personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause system shutdowns that could negatively affect our operations. they also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. our facilities and services may also be vulnerable to security incidents or security attacks; acts of vandalism or theft; coordinated attacks by activist entities; misplaced or lost data; human error; malicious social engineering; or other events that could negatively affect our systems, our customers' data, proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or third parties, or our operations. in certain circumstances we may rely on third party vendors to process, store and transmit large amounts of data for our business whose operations are subject to similar risks. the costs to eliminate or address the foregoing security threats and vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be material. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information, proprietary information or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose our customers' private information and our customers to the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability, including regulatory penalties, for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. if we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security and data laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize protected personal information on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of protected personal information is regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers. these laws, rules and requirements are subject to change. compliance with new privacy and security laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain or require us to alter our business model or operations. for example, the hitech amendments to hipaa imposed further restrictions on our ability to collect, disclose and use protected personal information and imposed additional compliance requirements on our business. internationally, many of the jurisdictions in which we operate have established their own data security and privacy legal framework with which we or our customers must comply. we expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection and information security in the european union, brazil, chile, india and other jurisdictions, and we cannot yet determine the impacts such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our businesses or the businesses of our customers. for example, effective may 2018, the european union's general data protection regulation (gdpr) overhauled data protection laws in the european union. the new regulation superseded 16 table of contents prior european union privacy and data protection legislation, imposed more stringent european union data protection requirements on us or our customers, and prescribed greater penalties for noncompliance. brazilian privacy legislation, similar in certain respects to gdpr, goes into effect in 2020. many of our businesses are also subject to the payment card industry data security standard, which is a multifaceted security standard that is designed to protect credit card account data. hipaa requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. while we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. several of our businesses act as business associates to their covered entity customers and, as a result, collect, use, disclose and maintain protected personal information in order to provide services to these customers. hhs has announced that it will continue its audit program to assess hipaa compliance efforts by covered entities and expand it to include business associates. an audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. through our optum businesses, including our optum labs business, we maintain a database of administrative and clinical data that is statistically de-identified in accordance with hipaa standards. noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of protected personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business and, among other consequences, could subject us to mandatory disclosure to the media, loss of existing or new customers, significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents and material fines, penalties and litigation awards. any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our businesses providing pharmacy care services face regulatory and operational risks and uncertainties that may differ from the risks of our other businesses. we provide pharmacy care services through our optumrx and unitedhealthcare businesses. each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback, beneficiary inducement and other laws that govern the relationships of the business with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies, customers and consumers. as a provider of pharmacy benefit management services, optumrx is also subject to an increasing number of licensure, registration and other laws and accreditation standards that impact the business practices of a pharmacy benefit manager. optumrx also conducts business through home delivery, specialty and compounding pharmacies, pharmacies located in community mental health centers and home infusion, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those of the dea and individual state controlled substance authorities, the fda and boards of pharmacy. in addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially affect current industry practices, including potential new legislation and regulations regarding the receipt or disclosure of rebates and other fees from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies and other utilization management tools, the use of average wholesale prices or other pricing benchmarks, pricing for specialty pharmaceuticals, limited access to networks and pharmacy network reimbursement methodologies. we could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our home delivery, specialty or compounding or clinic-based pharmacies or the provision of home infusion services, including as a result of the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. disruptions from any of our home delivery, specialty pharmacy or home infusion services could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, our pharmacy care services businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to erisa. a private party or the dol, which is the agency that enforces erisa, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pharmacy care services businesses even where those businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. if a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or claims that we entered into certain prohibited transactions. if we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our businesses compete throughout the united states, south america and other foreign markets and face significant competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. in particular markets, our competitors, compared to us, may have greater capabilities, resources or market share; a more established reputation; superior supplier or health care professional arrangements; better existing business relationships; lower profit margin or financial return expectations; or other factors that give such competitors a competitive advantage. our competitive position may also be adversely affected by significant merger 17 table of contents and acquisition activity that has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both among our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other health care professionals). consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase our customer base, improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or maintain or increase profitability. in addition, our success in the health care marketplace will depend on our ability to develop and deliver innovative and potentially disruptive products and services to satisfy evolving market demands. if we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful and relevant to consumers, we may not remain competitive, and we risk losing market share to existing competitors and disruptive new market entrants. for example, new direct-to-consumer business models from competing businesses may make it more difficult for us to directly engage consumers in the selection and management of their health care benefits and health care usage, and we may face challenges from new technologies and market entrants that could affect our existing relationship with health plan enrollees in these areas. our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect or declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals and other service providers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and other service providers at competitive prices. any failure by us to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain activities related to network design, provider participation in networks and provider payments could result in disputes that may be costly, divert management's attention from our operations and result in negative publicity. in any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician and hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. in addition, acos; practice management companies (which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency); and other organizational structures adopted by physicians, hospitals and other care providers may change the way in which these providers do business with us and may change the competitive landscape. such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which could adversely affect our business, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows by impacting our relationships with these providers or affecting the way that we price our products and estimate our costs, which might require us to incur costs to change our operations. in addition, if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. our health care benefits businesses have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the health care provider. to the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider, under the capitation arrangement. further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts could result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. health care providers with which we contract may not properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. in those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. in some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances the amount is either not defined or is established by a standard that does not clearly specify dollar terms. in some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. the success of some of our businesses, including optumhealth and unitedhealthcare global, depend on maintaining satisfactory relationships with physicians as our employees, independent contractors or joint venture partners. the physicians that practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or 18 table of contents otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. there is and will likely be heightened competition in the markets where we operate to acquire or manage physician practices or to employ or contract with individual physicians. if we are unable to maintain or grow satisfactory relationships with physicians, or to acquire, recruit or, in some instances, employ physicians, or to retain enrollees following the departure of a physician, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, our affiliated physician organizations contract with competitors of unitedhealthcare. our businesses could suffer if our affiliated physician organizations fail to maintain relationships with these companies, or fail to adequately price their contracts with these third-party payers. in addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and certain health care providers are customers of our optum businesses. physicians also provide medical services at facilities owned by our optum businesses. given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we are routinely subject to various legal actions due to the nature of our business, which could damage our reputation and, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties or monetary damages and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to, among other matters, the design, management and delivery of our product and service offerings. these matters have included or could in the future include matters related to health care benefits coverage and payment claims (including disputes with enrollees, customers and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort claims (including claims related to the delivery of health care services, such as medical malpractice by staff at our affiliates' facilities, or by health care practitioners who are employed by us, have contractual relationships with us, or serve as providers to our managed care networks), whistleblower claims (including claims under the false claims act or similar statutes), contract and labor disputes, tax claims and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. we are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups and consumers. in addition, we operate in jurisdictions outside of the united states where contractual rights, tax positions and applicable regulations may be subject to interpretation or uncertainty to a greater degree than in the united states, and therefore subject to dispute by customers, government authorities or others. we are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. while we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. although we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters, it is possible that the level of actual losses will significantly exceed the liabilities recorded. we cannot predict the outcome of significant legal actions in which we are involved and are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. the legal actions we face or may face in the future could further increase our cost of doing business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain legal actions could result in adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our ability to retain our current business or grow our market share in some markets and businesses. any failure by us to manage successfully our strategic alliances or complete, manage or integrate acquisitions and other significant strategic transactions or relationships domestically or outside the united states could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. for example, we have a strategic alliance with aarp under which we provide aarp-branded medicare supplement insurance to aarp members and other aarp-branded products and services to medicare beneficiaries. if we fail to meet the needs of our alliance or joint venture partners, including by developing additional products and services, providing high levels of service, pricing our products and services competitively or responding effectively to applicable federal and state regulatory changes, our alliances and joint ventures could be damaged or terminated, which in turn could adversely impact our reputation, business and results of operations. further, if we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. success in completing acquisitions is also dependent on efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations, including our internal control environment, or otherwise leveraging its operations, which may present challenges that are different from those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult for us to manage. if we cannot successfully integrate these acquisitions and realize contemplated revenue growth opportunities and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 19 table of contents as we expand and operate our business outside of the united states, we are presented with challenges that differ from those presented by acquisitions of domestic businesses, including challenges in adapting to new markets, languages, business, labor and cultural practices and regulatory environments. adapting to these challenges could require us to devote significant senior management and other resources to the acquired businesses before we realize anticipated synergies or other benefits from the acquired businesses. these challenges vary widely by country and may include political instability, government intervention, discriminatory regulation and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that could prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which our acquired businesses operate, or converting local currencies that we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies. if we are unable to manage successfully our non-u.s. acquisitions, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our shareholders' equity from period to period, which could adversely affect our debt to debt-plus-equity ratio, and our future revenues, costs and cash flows from international operations. any measures we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies may be costly or ineffective. our sales performance will suffer if we do not adequately attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent producers and consultants. our products and services are sold in part through nonexclusive producers and consultants for whose services and allegiance we must compete. our sales would be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to attract, retain and support such independent producers and consultants or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. our relationships with producers could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in our business practices and the nature of our relationships to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commission levels. a number of investigations have been conducted regarding the marketing practices of producers selling health care products and the payments they receive and have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and producers marketing and selling those companies' products. if we were subjected to similar investigations and enforcement actions, such actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans, which could materially and adversely impact our ability to market our products. unfavorable economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. unfavorable economic conditions may impact demand for certain of our products and services. for example, high unemployment can cause lower enrollment or lower rates of renewal in our employer group plans. unfavorable economic conditions also have caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. in addition, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact our ability to increase premiums or result in the cancellation by certain customers of our products and services. these conditions could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. during a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including medicare, medicaid and chip. a reduction in state medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to apply to payments already negotiated or received from the government and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the affected governments to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on health insurance and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims. any of these developments or actions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. a prolonged unfavorable economic environment also could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could materially and adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or materially and adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. further, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the customers of our optum businesses, including health plans, hospitals, care providers, employers and others, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect optum's financial results. our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which constitute the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of december 31, 2018 . relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have adversely impacted our investment income. in addition, a delay in payment of principal or interest by issuers, or defaults by issuers (primarily issuers of our investments in corporate and municipal bonds), could reduce our investment income and require us to write down the value of our investments, which could adversely affect our profitability and equity. 20 table of contents there can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than their carrying values. changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, changes in issuer financial conditions, illiquidity or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our equity. in addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, such an action could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of our regulated subsidiaries. if the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, equity and credit ratings could be materially and adversely affected. as of december 31, 2018 , our goodwill and other intangible assets had a carrying value of $68 billion , representing 45% of our total consolidated assets. we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. the value of our goodwill may be materially and adversely impacted if businesses that we acquire perform in a manner that is inconsistent with our assumptions. in addition, from time to time we divest businesses, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. a material decrease in equity could, in turn, adversely impact our credit ratings and potentially impact our compliance with the financial covenants in our bank credit facilities. if we fail to maintain properly the integrity or availability of our data or successfully consolidate, integrate, upgrade or expand our existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our ability to price adequately our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to report accurately our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. we periodically consolidate, integrate, upgrade and expand our information systems' capabilities as a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions. in addition, recent trends toward greater consumer engagement in health care require new and enhanced technologies, including more sophisticated applications for mobile devices. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses is found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, experience problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, become subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems' capabilities, enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology may not be successful. failure to protect, consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our businesses sell and install software products that may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. connectivity among competing technologies is becoming increasingly important in the health care industry. a failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. uncertain and rapidly evolving u.s. federal and state, non-u.s. and international laws and regulations related to the health information technology market may present compliance challenges and could materially and adversely affect the configuration of our information systems and platforms, and our ability to compete in this market. if we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases, software and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary 21 table of contents information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our regulated subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent on dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. many of these subsidiaries are regulated by departments of insurance or similar regulatory authorities. we are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily on the volume of premium revenues generated by the applicable subsidiary. in most states, we are required to seek approval by state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. an inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies in the desired amounts or at the time of our choosing could adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, as well as our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment, repurchase shares of our common stock and repay our debt. if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. any downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. claims paying ability, financial strength and debt ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used by customers and creditors. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically. our ratings reflect each credit rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. there can be no assurance that our current credit ratings will be maintained in the future. any downgrades in our credit ratings could materially increase our costs of or ability to access funds in the debt capital markets and otherwise materially increase our operating costs. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risks are exposures to changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and interest expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt, as well as foreign currency exchange rate risk of the u.s. dollar primarily to the brazilian real and chilean peso. as of december 31, 2018, we had $14 billion of financial assets on which the interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may materially impact our investment income. also as of december 31, 2018, $9 billion of our financial liabilities, which include commercial paper, debt and deposit liabilities, were at interest rates that vary with market rates, either directly or through the use of related interest rate swap contracts. the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. as of december 31, 2018, $30 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities and $32 billion of our debt was non-swapped fixed-rate term debt. an increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. we manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed-income market sectors and debt across maturities, as well as by endeavoring to match our floating-rate assets and liabilities over time, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap contracts. unrealized gains and losses on investments in available-for-sale securities are reported in comprehensive income. 36 table of contents the following tables summarize the impact of hypothetical changes in market interest rates across the entire yield curve by 1% point or 2% points as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 on our investment income and interest expense per annum and the fair value of our investments and debt (in millions, except percentages): december 31, 2018 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum interest expense per annum fair value of financial assets (b) fair value of financial liabilities 2 % $ 276 $ 189 $ (2,242 ) $ (5,017 ) 1 138 94 (1,140 ) (2,724 ) (1) (138 ) (94 ) 1,118 3,155 (2) (276 ) (189 ) 2,196 6,953 december 31, 2017 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of financial assets (b) fair value of financial liabilities 2% $ 300 $ 170 $ (1,958 ) $ (4,546 ) 1 150 85 (933 ) (2,460 ) (1) (150 ) (85 ) 950 2,923 (2) (197 ) (133 ) 1,773 6,414 (a) given the low absolute level of short-term market rates on our floating-rate assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2017, the assumed hypothetical change in interest rates does not reflect the full 200 basis point reduction in interest income or interest expense in 2017, as the rate cannot fall below zero. (b) as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, some of our investments had interest rates below 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in the fair value of investments does not reflect the full 200 basis point reduction. we have an exposure to changes in the value of foreign currencies, primarily the brazilian real and the chilean peso, to the u.s. dollar in translation of unitedhealthcare global's operating results at the average exchange rate over the accounting period, and unitedhealthcare global's assets and liabilities at the spot rate at the end of the accounting period. the gains or losses resulting from translating foreign assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars are included in equity and comprehensive income. an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real or chilean peso reduces the carrying value of the net assets denominated in those currencies. for example, as of december 31, 2018, a hypothetical 10% and 25% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against those currencies would have caused a reduction in net assets of approximately $600 million and $1.4 billion, respectively. we manage exposure to foreign currency earnings risk primarily by conducting our international business operations in their functional currencies. as of december 31, 2018, we had $2.0 billion of investments in equity securities, consisting of investments in non-u.s. dollar fixed-income funds; employee savings plan related investments; and dividend paying stocks. valuations in non-u.s. dollar funds are subject to foreign exchange rates. 37 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors cautionary statements the statements, estimates, projections or outlook contained in this annual report on form 10-k include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (pslra). when used in this annual report on form 10-k and in future filings by us with the sec, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, forecast, outlook, plan, project, should or similar words or phrases are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. these statements are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the pslra. these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement in this report speaks only as of the date of this report and, except as required by law; we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date of this report. the following discussion contains cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. we do not undertake to address in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations how any of these factors may have caused our results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. in addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. any or all forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. our forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors discussed below will be important in determining our future results. by their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. if we fail to estimate, price for and manage our medical costs in an effective manner, the profitability of our risk-based products and services could decline and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. through our risk-based benefit products, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. we generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. the profitability of our products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for and effectively manage medical costs. our optumhealth business negotiates capitation arrangements with commercial third-party payers, which are also included in premium revenues. under the typical capitation arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of a third-party payer's premiums to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs 12 table of contents provided to the capitated member. premium revenues from risk-based products comprise nearly 80% of our total consolidated revenues. if we fail to predict accurately, or effectively price for or manage the costs of providing care to our capitated members, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered, the cost of each service and the type of service rendered. our premium revenue on commercial policies and medicaid contracts are typically based on a fixed monthly rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to six months before the contract commences. our revenue on medicare policies is based on bids submitted to cms in june the year before the contract year. although we base the commercial and medicaid premiums we charge and our medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period, many factors may cause actual costs to exceed those estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. these factors may include medical cost inflation, increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, large-scale medical emergencies, the introduction of new or costly drugs, treatments and technology, new treatment guidelines, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of essential benefits coverage) or other regulatory changes and insured population characteristics. relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. for example, if our 2019 medical costs for commercial insured products had been 1% higher than our actual medical costs, without proportionally higher revenues from such products, our annual net earnings for 2019 would have been reduced by approximately $320 million, excluding any offsetting impact from risk adjustment or from reduced premium rebates due to minimum mlrs. in addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. these estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. if these estimates prove inaccurate, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our business activities are highly regulated and new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially and adversely affect our business. we are regulated by federal, state and local governments in the united states and other countries where we do business. our insurance and hmo subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. for example, states require periodic financial reports and enforce minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations and some of our activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including those relating to ppos, mcos, ur and tpa-related regulations and licensure requirements. under state guaranty association laws, certain insurance companies can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of impaired or insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or similar lines of business. any such assessment could expose our insurance entities and other insurers to the risk that they would be required to pay a portion of an impaired or insolvent insurance company's claims through state guaranty associations. certain of our businesses provide products or services to various government agencies. for example, some of our unitedhealthcare and optum businesses hold government contracts or provide services related to government contracts and are subject to u.s. federal and state and non u.s. self-referral, anti-kickback, medical necessity, risk adjustment, false claims and other laws and regulations governing government contractors and the use of government funds. our relationships with these government agencies are subject to the terms of contracts that we hold with the agencies and to laws and regulations regarding government contracts. among others, certain laws and regulations restrict or prohibit companies from performing work for government agencies that might be viewed as an actual or potential conflict of interest. these laws may limit our ability to pursue and perform certain types of work, thereby materially and adversely affecting our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our optum businesses are also subject to regulations that are distinct from those faced by our insurance and hmo subsidiaries, including, for example, state telemedicine regulations; debt collection laws; banking regulations; distributor and producer licensing requirements; state corporate practice of medicine doctrines; fee-splitting rules; and health care facility licensure and certificate of need requirements, some of which could impact our relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. these risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our ability to market or provide our products and services, or to do so at targeted operating margins, or may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate. the laws and rules governing our businesses and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. for example, legislative, administrative and public policy changes to the aca are being considered, and we cannot predict if the aca will be further modified or repealed or replaced. litigation challenges have been brought seeking to invalidate the aca in whole or in part; and a federal appeals court struck down the aca as in part unconstitutional in 2019. that case has been remanded to federal district court. further, the integration into our businesses of entities that we acquire may affect the way in which existing laws and rules apply to us, including by subjecting us to laws and rules that did not previously apply to us. the broad latitude given to the agencies administering, interpreting and enforcing current and future regulations governing our 13 table of contents businesses could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, or expose us to increased liability in courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. we also must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products and services, increase prices for certain regulated products and services and complete certain acquisitions and dispositions or integrate certain acquisitions. for example, premium rates for our health insurance and managed care products are subject to regulatory review or approval in many states and by the federal government. additionally, we must submit data on all proposed rate increases on many of our products to hhs for monitoring purposes. geographic and product expansions may be subject to state and federal regulatory approvals. delays in obtaining necessary approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain adequate approvals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our businesses operate internationally and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or conduct business. these regulatory regimes encompass, among other matters, local and cross-border taxation, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, investment, capital (including minimum solvency margin and reserve requirements), management control, labor, anti-fraud, anti-corruption and privacy and data protection regulations (including requirements for cross-border data transfers) that vary by jurisdiction. we currently operate outside of the united states and in the future may acquire or commence additional businesses based outside of the united states, increasing our exposure to non-u.s. regulatory regimes. for example, our unitedhealthcare global business subjects us to brazilian laws and regulations affecting hospitals, managed care and insurance industries and to regulation by brazilian regulators, including the national regulatory agency for private health insurance and plans, the ag ncia nacional de sa de suplementar, while the banm dica business is subject to chilean, colombian and peruvian laws, regulations and regulators applicable to hospitals and private insurance. any international regulator may take an approach to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of industry regulations that could differ from the approach taken by u.s. regulators. in addition, our non-u.s. businesses and operations are subject to u.s. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of u.s.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the fcpa, which prohibits offering, promising, providing or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage. our failure to comply with u.s. or non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the united states or to establish constructive relations with non-u.s. regulators could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted operating margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the health care industry is regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of governmental investigations, adverse media coverage and political debate surrounding industry regulation. negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation in various markets. as a result of our participation in various government health care programs, both as a payer and as a service provider to payers, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments, audits and government investigations that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we participate in various federal, state and local government health care benefit programs, including as a payer in medicare advantage, medicare part d, various medicaid programs and chip, and receive substantial revenues from these programs. certain of our optum businesses also provide services to payers participating in government health care programs. a reduction or less than expected increase, or a protracted delay, in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies, or termination of the contract at the option of the government, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the government health care programs in which we participate generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible for coverage, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, reduce our participation in certain service areas or markets, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. revenues for these programs depend on periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. funding for these government programs depends on many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level. for example, cms has in the past reduced or frozen medicare advantage benchmarks, and additional cuts to medicare advantage benchmarks are possible. in addition, from time to time, cms makes changes to the way it calculates medicare advantage risk adjustment payments. although we have adjusted members' benefits and premiums on a selective basis, ceased to offer benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to the benchmark reductions and other funding pressures, these or other strategies may not fully address the funding pressures in the medicare advantage program. in addition, payers in the medicare advantage program may be subject to reductions in payments from cms as a result of decreased funding or recoupment pursuant to government audit. under the medicaid managed care program, state medicaid agencies seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care medicaid health programs. if we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state medicaid 14 table of contents managed care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those medicaid plans. under the medicare part d program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a regional benchmark, which is calculated by the government after all regional bids are submitted. if the enrollee premium is not below the government benchmark, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. in general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs and other factors. if any of these assumptions is materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the programs on which we bid, implementation of material program or policy changes after our bid submission, or submission by our competitors at lower rates than our bids, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. many of the government health care coverage programs in which we participate are subject to the prior satisfaction of certain conditions or performance standards or benchmarks. for example, as part of the aca, cms has a system that provides various quality bonus payments to medicare advantage plans that meet certain quality star ratings at the individual plan or local contract level. the star rating system considers various measures adopted by cms, including, among others, quality of care, preventive services, chronic illness management and customer satisfaction. plans must have a rating of four stars or higher to qualify for bonus payments. if we do not maintain or continue to improve our star ratings, our plans may not be eligible for quality bonuses and we may experience a negative impact on our revenues and the benefits that our plans can offer, which could materially and adversely affect the marketability of our plans, our membership levels, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. any changes in standards or care delivery models that apply to government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, or our inability to improve our quality scores and star ratings to meet government performance requirements or to match the performance of our competitors could result in limitations to our participation in or exclusion from these or other government programs, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. cms uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for medicare programs, including adjustment of monthly capitation payments to medicare advantage plans and medicare part d plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers for medicare advantage plans, as well as, for medicare part d plans, risk-sharing provisions based on a comparison of costs predicted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs. some state medicaid programs utilize a similar process. for example, our unitedhealthcare medicare &amp; retirement and unitedhealthcare community &amp; state businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to cms or state agencies for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. cms and the office of inspector general for hhs periodically perform risk adjustment data validation (radv) audits of selected medicare health plans to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers. certain of our local plans have been selected for such audits, which have in the past resulted and could in the future result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans, fines, corrective action plans or other adverse action by cms. we have been and may in the future become involved in routine, regular and special governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments. such investigations, audits, reviews or assessments sometimes arise out of, or prompt claims by private litigants or whistleblowers that, among other allegations, we failed to disclose certain business practices or, as a government contractor, submitted false or erroneous claims to the government. governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments could lead to government actions, which could result in adverse publicity, the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. if we fail to maintain properly the integrity or availability of our data or successfully consolidate, integrate, upgrade or expand our existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our business is highly dependent on the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to serve our members, customers and health care professionals and to operate our business. the volume of health care data generated, and the uses of data, including electronic health records, are rapidly expanding. our ability to implement new and innovative services, price adequately our products and services, provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and report accurately our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. in addition, connectivity among technologies is becoming increasingly important and recent trends toward greater consumer engagement in health care require new and enhanced technologies, including more sophisticated applications for mobile devices. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. if the data we rely upon to run our businesses is found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could experience failures in our health, wellness and information technology products; lose existing customers; have difficulty attracting new customers; experience 15 table of contents problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing; have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud; have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals; become subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties; incur increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. we periodically consolidate, integrate, upgrade and expand our information systems' capabilities as a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions. our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems' capabilities, enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology may not be successful. failure to protect, consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our businesses sell and install software products that may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. a failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. uncertain and rapidly evolving u.s. federal and state, non-u.s. and international laws and regulations related to health data and the health information technology market may alter the competitive landscape or present compliance challenges and could materially and adversely affect the configuration of our information systems and platforms, and our ability to compete in this market. if we sustain cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents that result in security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the unintended dissemination of protected personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences. we routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data in our operations, including protected personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or third parties. some of the data we process, store and transmit may be outside of the united states due to our information technology systems and international business operations. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber-attacks and other security threats and may be subject to breaches of the information technology systems we use. we have programs in place that are intended to detect, contain and respond to data security incidents and that provide employee awareness training regarding phishing, malware and other cyber risks to protect against cyber risks and security breaches. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our security controls and access, misappropriate or otherwise compromise protected personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause system shutdowns that could negatively affect our operations. they also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. our facilities and services may also be vulnerable to security incidents or security attacks; acts of vandalism or theft; coordinated attacks by activist entities; misplaced or lost data; human error; malicious social engineering; or other events that could negatively affect our systems, our customers' data, proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or third parties, or our operations. in certain circumstances we may rely on third party vendors to process, store and transmit large amounts of data for our business whose operations are subject to similar risks. the costs to eliminate or address the foregoing security threats and vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be material. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information, proprietary information or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose our customers' private information and our customers to the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability, including regulatory penalties, for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. if we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security and data laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize protected personal information on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of protected personal information is regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers. these laws, rules and requirements are subject to change. compliance with new privacy and security laws, 16 table of contents regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain or require us to alter our business model or operations. internationally, many of the jurisdictions in which we operate have established their own data security and privacy legal framework with which we or our customers must comply. we expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection and information security in the european union, brazil, chile, india and other jurisdictions, and we cannot yet determine the impacts such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our businesses or the businesses of our customers. for example, effective may 2018, the european union's general data protection regulation (gdpr) overhauled data protection laws in the european union. the new regulation superseded prior european union privacy and data protection legislation, imposed more stringent european union data protection requirements on us or our customers, and prescribed greater penalties for noncompliance. brazilian privacy legislation, similar in certain respects to gdpr, goes into effect in 2020. many of our businesses are also subject to the payment card industry data security standard, which is a multifaceted security standard that is designed to protect credit card account data. hipaa requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. while we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. several of our businesses act as business associates to their covered entity customers and, as a result, collect, use, disclose and maintain protected personal information in order to provide services to these customers. hhs administers its audit program to assess hipaa compliance efforts by covered entities and business associates. an audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. through our optum businesses, including our optum labs business, we maintain a database of administrative and clinical data that is statistically de-identified in accordance with hipaa standards. noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of protected personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business and, among other consequences, could subject us to mandatory disclosure to the media, loss of existing or new customers, significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents and material fines, penalties and litigation awards. any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our businesses providing pharmacy care services face regulatory and operational risks and uncertainties that may differ from the risks of our other businesses. we provide pharmacy care services through our optumrx and unitedhealthcare businesses. each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback, beneficiary inducement and other laws that govern the relationships of the business with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies, customers and consumers. in addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially affect current industry practices, including potential new legislation and regulations regarding the receipt or disclosure of rebates and other fees from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies and other utilization management tools, the use of average wholesale prices or other pricing benchmarks, pricing for specialty pharmaceuticals, limited access to networks and pharmacy network reimbursement methodologies. additionally, various governmental agencies have conducted investigations into certain pbm practices, which have resulted in other pbms agreeing to civil penalties, including the payment of money and entry into corporate integrity agreements. as a provider of pharmacy benefit management services, optumrx is also subject to an increasing number of licensure, registration and other laws and accreditation standards that impact the business practices of a pharmacy benefit manager. optumrx also conducts business through home delivery, specialty and compounding pharmacies, pharmacies located in community mental health centers and home infusion, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those of the dea and individual state controlled substance authorities, the food and drug administration (fda) and boards of pharmacy. we could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our home delivery, specialty or compounding or clinic-based pharmacies or the provision of home infusion services, including as a result of the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. disruptions from any of our home delivery, specialty pharmacy or home infusion services could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, our pharmacy care services businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to erisa. a private party or the dol, which is the agency that enforces erisa, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pharmacy care services businesses even where those businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. if a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or claims that we entered into certain prohibited transactions. 17 table of contents if we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our businesses compete throughout the united states, south america and other foreign markets and face significant competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. in particular markets, our competitors, compared to us, may have greater capabilities, resources or market share; a more established reputation; superior supplier or health care professional arrangements; better existing business relationships; lower profit margin or financial return expectations; or other factors that give such competitors a competitive advantage. our competitive position may also be adversely affected by significant merger and acquisition activity that has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both among our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other health care professionals). consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase our customer base, improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or maintain or increase profitability. in addition, our success in the health care marketplace will depend on our ability to develop and deliver innovative and potentially disruptive products and services to satisfy evolving market demands. if we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful and relevant to consumers, we may not remain competitive, and we risk losing market share to existing competitors and disruptive new market entrants. for example, new direct-to-consumer business models from competing businesses may make it more difficult for us to directly engage consumers in the selection and management of their health care benefits and health care usage, and we may face challenges from new technologies and market entrants that could affect our existing relationship with health plan enrollees in these areas. our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect or declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals and other service providers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and other service providers at competitive prices. any failure by us to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain activities related to network design, provider participation in networks and provider payments could result in disputes that may be costly, divert management's attention from our operations and result in negative publicity. in any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician and hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. in addition, acos; practice management companies (which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency); and other organizational structures adopted by physicians, hospitals and other care providers may change the way in which these providers do business with us and may change the competitive landscape. such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which could adversely affect our business, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows by impacting our relationships with these providers or affecting the way that we price our products and estimate our costs, which might require us to incur costs to change our operations. in addition, if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. our health care benefits businesses have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the health care provider. to the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider. further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts could result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. health care providers with which we contract may not properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. in those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. 18 table of contents in some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances the amount is either not defined or is established by a standard that does not clearly specify dollar terms. in some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. the success of some of our businesses, including optumhealth and unitedhealthcare global, depend on maintaining satisfactory relationships with physicians as our employees, independent contractors or joint venture partners. the physicians that practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. we face and will likely continue to face heightened competition in the markets where we operate to acquire or manage physician practices or to employ or contract with individual physicians. if we are unable to maintain or grow satisfactory relationships with physicians, or to acquire, recruit or, in some instances, employ physicians, or to retain enrollees following the departure of a physician, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, our affiliated physician organizations contract with competitors of unitedhealthcare. our businesses could suffer if our affiliated physician organizations fail to maintain relationships with these companies, or fail to adequately price their contracts with these third-party payers. in addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and certain health care providers are customers of our optum businesses. physicians also provide medical services at facilities owned by our optum businesses. given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we are routinely subject to various legal actions due to the nature of our business, which could damage our reputation and, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties or monetary damages and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to, among other matters, the design, management and delivery of our product and service offerings. these matters have included or could in the future include matters related to health care benefits coverage and payment claims (including disputes with enrollees, customers and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort claims (including claims related to the delivery of health care services, such as medical malpractice by staff at our affiliates' facilities, or by health care practitioners who are employed by us, have contractual relationships with us, or serve as providers to our managed care networks), whistleblower claims (including claims under the false claims act or similar statutes), contract and labor disputes, tax claims and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. we may also be party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups and consumers. in addition, we operate in jurisdictions outside of the united states where contractual rights, tax positions and applicable regulations may be subject to interpretation or uncertainty to a greater degree than in the united states, and therefore subject to dispute by customers, government authorities or others. we are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. while we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. although we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters, it is possible that the level of actual losses will significantly exceed the liabilities recorded. we cannot predict the outcome of significant legal actions in which we are involved and are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. the legal actions we face or may face in the future could further increase our cost of doing business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, certain legal actions could result in adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our ability to retain our current business or grow our market share in some markets and businesses. any failure by us to manage successfully our strategic alliances or complete, manage or integrate acquisitions and other significant strategic transactions or relationships domestically or outside the united states could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. for example, we have a strategic alliance with aarp under which we provide aarp-branded medicare supplement insurance to aarp members and other aarp-branded products and services to medicare beneficiaries. if we fail to meet the needs of our alliance or joint venture partners, including by developing additional products and services, providing high levels of service, pricing our products and services competitively or responding effectively to applicable federal and state regulatory changes, our alliances and joint ventures could be damaged or terminated, which in turn could adversely impact our reputation, business and results of operations. further, if we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and 19 table of contents technology internally, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. success in completing acquisitions is also dependent on efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations, including our internal control environment, or otherwise leveraging its operations, which may present challenges that are different from those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult for us to manage. if we cannot successfully integrate these acquisitions and realize contemplated revenue growth opportunities and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. as we expand and operate our business outside of the united states, we are presented with challenges that differ from those presented by acquisitions of domestic businesses, including challenges in adapting to new markets, languages, business, labor and cultural practices and regulatory environments. adapting to these challenges could require us to devote significant senior management attention and other resources to the acquired businesses before we realize anticipated synergies or other benefits from the acquired businesses. these challenges vary widely by country and, outside of the united states, may include political instability, government intervention, discriminatory regulation and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that could prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which our acquired businesses operate, or converting local currencies that we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies. if we are unable to manage successfully our non-u.s. acquisitions, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our shareholders' equity from period to period, which could adversely affect our debt to debt-plus-equity ratio, and our future revenues, costs and cash flows from international operations. any measures we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies may be costly or ineffective. our sales performance will suffer if we do not adequately attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent producers and consultants. our products and services are sold in part through nonexclusive producers and consultants for whose services and allegiance we must compete. our sales would be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to attract, retain and support such independent producers and consultants or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. our relationships with producers could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in our business practices and the nature of our relationships to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commission levels. a number of investigations have been conducted regarding the marketing practices of producers selling health care products and the payments they receive and have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and producers marketing and selling those companies' products. if we were subjected to similar investigations and enforcement actions, such actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans, which could materially and adversely impact our ability to market our products. unfavorable economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. unfavorable economic conditions may impact demand for certain of our products and services. for example, high unemployment can cause lower enrollment or lower rates of renewal in our employer group plans. unfavorable economic conditions also have caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. in addition, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact our ability to increase premiums or result in the cancellation by certain customers of our products and services. these conditions could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. during a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including medicare, medicaid and chip. a reduction in state medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to apply to payments already negotiated or received from the government and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the affected governments to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on health insurance and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims. any of these developments or actions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. a prolonged unfavorable economic environment also could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could materially and adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or materially and adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. further, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the customers of our optum businesses, including health plans, hospitals, care providers, employers and others, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect optum's financial results. 20 table of contents our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which constitute the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of december 31, 2019 . relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have adversely impacted our investment income. in addition, a delay in payment of principal or interest by issuers, or defaults by issuers (primarily issuers of our investments in corporate and municipal bonds), could reduce our investment income and require us to write down the value of our investments, which could adversely affect our profitability and equity. there can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than their carrying values. changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, changes in issuer financial conditions, illiquidity or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our equity. in addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, such an action could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of our regulated subsidiaries. if the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, equity and credit ratings could be materially and adversely affected. as of december 31, 2019 , our goodwill and other intangible assets had a carrying value of $76 billion , representing 44% of our total consolidated assets. we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. the value of our goodwill may be materially and adversely impacted if businesses that we acquire perform in a manner that is inconsistent with our assumptions. in addition, from time to time we divest businesses, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. a material decrease in equity could, in turn, adversely affect our credit ratings and potentially impact our compliance with the financial covenants in our bank credit facilities. if we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases, software and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our regulated subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent on dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. many of these subsidiaries are regulated by departments of insurance or similar regulatory authorities. we are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily on the volume of premium revenues generated by the applicable subsidiary. in most states, we are required to seek approval by state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. an inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies in the desired amounts or at the time of our choosing could adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, as well as our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment, repurchase shares of our common stock and repay our debt. if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. any downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. claims paying ability, financial strength and debt ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used by customers and creditors. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically. our ratings reflect each credit rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to 21 table of contents policyholders. there can be no assurance that our current credit ratings will be maintained in the future. any downgrades in our credit ratings could materially increase our costs of or ability to access funds in the debt capital markets and otherwise materially increase our operating costs. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risks are exposures to changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and interest expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt, as well as foreign currency exchange rate risk of the u.s. dollar primarily to the brazilian real and chilean peso. as of december 31, 2019 , we had $14 billion of financial assets on which the interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may significantly impact our investment income. also as of december 31, 2019 , $9 billion of our financial liabilities, which include commercial paper, debt and deposit liabilities, were at interest rates that vary with market rates, either directly or through the use of related interest rate swap contracts. the fair value of our fixed-rate investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. as of december 31, 2019 , $33 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities and $39 billion of our debt was non-swapped fixed-rate term debt. an increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. we manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed-income market sectors and debt across maturities, as well as by endeavoring to match our floating-rate assets and liabilities over time, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap contracts. unrealized gains and losses on investments in available-for-sale debt securities are reported in comprehensive income. the following tables summarize the impact of hypothetical changes in market interest rates across the entire yield curve by 1% point or 2% points as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 on our investment income and interest expense per annum and the fair value of our investments and debt (in millions, except percentages): december 31, 2019 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum interest expense per annum fair value of financial assets (a) fair value of financial liabilities 2 % $ 282 $ 185 $ (2,668 ) $ (6,813 ) 1 141 93 (1,331 ) (3,704 ) (1) (141 ) (93 ) 1,246 4,433 (2) (282 ) (185 ) 2,071 9,613 december 31, 2018 increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum interest expense per annum fair value of financial assets (a) fair value of financial liabilities 2% $ 276 $ 189 $ (2,242 ) $ (5,017 ) 1 138 94 (1,140 ) (2,724 ) (1) (138 ) (94 ) 1,118 3,155 (2) (276 ) (189 ) 2,196 6,953 (a) as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, some of our investments had interest rates below 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in the fair value of investments does not reflect the full 200 basis point reduction. we have an exposure to changes in the value of foreign currencies, primarily the brazilian real and the chilean peso, to the u.s. dollar in translation of unitedhealthcare global's operating results at the average exchange rate over the accounting period, and unitedhealthcare global's assets and liabilities at the exchange rate at the end of the accounting period. the gains or losses resulting from translating foreign assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars are included in equity and comprehensive income. an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real or chilean peso reduces the carrying value of the net assets denominated in those currencies. for example, as of december 31, 2019 , a hypothetical 10% and 25% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against those currencies would have caused a reduction in net assets of approximately $600 million and $1.3 billion, respectively. we manage exposure to foreign currency earnings risk primarily by conducting our international business operations in their functional currencies. as of december 31, 2019 , we had $2.0 billion of investments in equity securities, primarily consisting of investments in non-u.s. dollar fixed-income funds; employee savings plan related investments; and dividend paying stocks. valuations in non-u.s. dollar funds are subject to foreign exchange rates. 35 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information contained under the heading quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in our annual report to shareholders for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by reference. 16 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information contained under the heading quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in our annual report to shareholders for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2003, is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information contained under the heading quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the company annual report to shareholders for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2001, is incorporated herein by reference. 17 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to item 7 of this report under the heading quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 37 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors see item 7 cautionary statements, which is incorporated by reference herein. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to item 7 of this report under the heading quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 41 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors see item 7 cautionary statements, which is incorporated by reference herein. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to item 7 of this report under the heading quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 63 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors see item 7 cautionary statements, which is incorporated by reference herein. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the risk of changes in the fair value of a financial instrument caused by changes in interest rates or equity prices. the company primary market risk is exposure to changes in interest rates that could impact the fair value of our investments and long-term debt. approximately $13.0 billion of our investments at december 31, 2007 were debt securities. assuming a hypothetical and immediate 1% increase or decrease in interest rates applicable to our fixed-income investment portfolio at december 31, 2007, the fair value of our fixed-income investments would decrease or increase by approximately $460 million. we manage our investment portfolio to limit our exposure to any one issuer or industry and largely limit our investments to u.s. government and agency securities, state and municipal securities, and corporate debt obligations that are investment grade. to mitigate the financial impact of changes in interest rates, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements to more closely align the fixed interest rates of our long-term debt with the variable rates of our cash equivalents and short-term investments. including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements, approximately $8.2 billion of our commercial paper and debt had variable rates of interest and $2.8 billion had fixed rates as of december 31, 2007. a hypothetical 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would change the fair value of our debt by approximately $330 million. at december 31, 2007, we had $383 million of equity investments, a portion of which were held in various public and non-public companies concentrated in the areas of health care delivery and related information technologies. market conditions that affect the value of health care or technology stocks will likewise impact the value of our equity portfolio. 50risk factors 14 risk factors cautionary statements the statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook contained in this annual report on form 10-k include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (pslra). when used in this annual report on form 10-k and in future filings by us with the sec, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, plan, project, should or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. these statements are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the pslra. these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. the following discussion contains certain cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or operating results, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. in addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. any or all forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate 14 table of contents assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. by their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. actual future results may vary materially from expectations expressed in this report or any of our prior communications. if we fail to effectively estimate, price for and manage our health care costs, the profitability of our risk-based products could decline and could materially adversely affect our future financial results. under our risk-based product arrangements, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. premium revenues from risk-based products comprise approximately 90% of our total consolidated revenues. we generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. the profitability of our risk-based products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and effectively manage health care costs. we manage health care costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and medical management programs. total health care costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered and the cost of each service. our premium revenue on commercial policies is typically fixed for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to four months before the contract commences. our revenue on medicare policies is based on bids submitted in june the year before the contract year. we base the premiums we charge and our medicare bids on our estimate of future health care costs over the fixed contract period; however, medical cost inflation, regulation and other factors may cause actual costs to exceed what was estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. these factors may include increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, catastrophes, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology, new mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, insured population characteristics and seasonal changes in the level of health care use. as a measure of the impact of medical cost on our financial results, relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. for example, if medical costs increased by 1% without a proportional change in related revenues for commercial insured products, our annual net earnings for 2008 would have been reduced by approximately $200 million. in addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. these estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. if these estimates prove too low, they will have a negative impact on our future results. if we fail to comply with federal and state regulations, or fail to respond quickly and appropriately to health care reforms and frequent changes in federal and state regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our business is regulated at the federal, state, local and international levels. the laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. the broad latitude that is given to the agencies administering those regulations, as well as future laws and rules, could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, and increase our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. see item 1, business government regulation for a discussion of various federal and state laws and regulations governing our businesses. we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products, to increase prices for certain regulated products and to complete certain acquisitions and dispositions, including integration of certain acquisitions. delays in obtaining approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce our revenue or increase our costs. legislative proposals that would reform the health care system have been advanced by congress and state legislatures and are currently pending at the state and federal levels. these changes include policy changes that 15 table of contents would fundamentally change the dynamics of our industry, such as having the federal or one or more state governments assume a larger role in the health care industry or a fundamental restructuring of the medicare or medicaid programs. these proposals may also affect certain aspects of our business, including contracting with physicians, hospitals and/or other health care professionals; physician reimbursement methods and payment rates; coverage determinations; mandated benefits; minimum medical expenditures; claim payments and processing; drug utilization and patient safety efforts; collection, use, disclosure, maintenance and disposal of individually identifiable health information; personal health records; consumer-driven health plans and health savings accounts and insurance market reforms; and government-sponsored programs. for example, the new administration and various congressional leaders have signaled their interest in reducing payments to private plans offering medicare advantage. depending on the extent and phasing of these potential reductions, the number of seniors participating in medicare advantage and the industry-wide earnings derived from these plans may fall. in addition, massachusetts has enacted comprehensive reform, including an individual health coverage mandate coupled with an employer mandate and a new state connector authority. a number of other state legislatures, including california, colorado, new york, ohio and pennsylvania, have contemplated but have not enacted significant reform of their health insurance markets. other states are expected to consider these types of reforms as well as more modest reforms aimed at expanding medicaid and/or schip eligibility as well as new coverage options for those not eligible for government programs. these proposals include provisions affecting both public programs and privately financed health insurance arrangements. states also are considering proposals that would reform the underwriting and marketing practices of individual and group health insurance products by, for example, placing restrictions on rating and pricing and mandating minimum medical benefit cost ratios. in addition, from time to time, congress has considered various forms of managed care reform legislation which if adopted, could fundamentally alter the treatment of coverage decisions under erisa. additionally, there is legislative interest in modifying erisa preemptive effect on state laws. if adopted, such limitations could increase our liability exposure and could permit greater state regulation of our operations. we cannot predict if any of these initiatives will ultimately become law, or, if enacted, what their terms or the regulations promulgated pursuant to such laws will be, but their enactment could increase our costs, expose us to expanded liability and require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business. in addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by such changes even if we correctly predict their occurrence. in addition, the health care industry is subject to negative publicity. negative publicity may result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by: adversely affecting our ability to market our products and services; requiring us to change our products and services; or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. in august 2007, we entered into a multi-state national agreement with regulatory offices in 39 states and the district of columbia relating to the legacy unitedhealthcare fully insured commercial business. the agreement covers several key areas of review of our business operations, including claims payment accuracy and timeliness, appeals and grievances resolution timeliness, health care professional network/service, utilization review, explanation of benefits accuracy, and oversight and due diligence of contracted entities and vendor performance. the agreement addressed and resolved past regulatory matters related to the areas of review prior to august 2007 and establishes a transparent framework for evaluating and regulating performance through december 2010. on a prospective basis, the agreement is similar to a customer performance guarantee, whereby we will self report quarterly and annually our operational performance on a set of national performance standards agreed to by the participating states. we must perform to the standards set forth in the agreement, or be subject to fines and penalties. we are also involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. these regulatory activities include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by cms, state insurance and health and 16 table of contents welfare departments and state attorneys general, the office of the inspector general, the office of personnel management, the office of civil rights, the u.s. department of justice, u.s. attorneys, the sec, the irs, the u.s. department of labor and other governmental authorities. for example, in 2007, the california department of insurance examined the company pacificare health insurance plan in california. the examination findings related to claims processing accuracy and timeliness, accurate and timely interest payments, timely implementation of provider contracts, timely, accurate provider dispute resolution, and other related matters. to date, the california department of insurance has not levied a financial penalty related to its findings. the company is working closely with the department to resolve any outstanding issues arising from the findings of its examination. in addition, the u.s. department of labor is conducting an investigation of our administration of our employee benefit plans with respect to erisa compliance. reviews and investigations of this sort can lead to government actions, which can result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, public perception or publicity surrounding routine governmental investigations may adversely affect our stock price, damage our reputation in various markets or make it more difficult for us to sell products and services. adverse conditions in the global economy and extreme disruption of financial markets could adversely affect our revenues, sources of liquidity, investment portfolio and our results of operations. as widely reported, worldwide financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruption, including volatility in the prices of securities and severely diminished liquidity and availability of credit. these extreme events, along with a recession, inflation or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. for example, higher unemployment rates and significant employment layoffs and downsizings could lead to lower enrollment in our employer group plans, lower enrollment in our non-employer individual plans and a higher number of employees opting out of our employer group plans. the adverse economic conditions could also cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. in addition, the economic downturn could negatively impact our employer group renewal prospects and our ability to increase premiums and could result in cancellation of products and services by our customers. all of these could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, a prolonged economic downturn could negatively impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers and therefore could adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs. during a prolonged economic downturn, state and federal budgets could be adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including medicare, medicaid and schip. a reduction in state medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to payments already negotiated and/or received from the government and could adversely affect our revenues and financial results. in addition, the state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the government to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on health maintenance organizations and surcharges on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims, and could adversely affect our results of operations. the current economic crisis is causing contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace. while our largest source of funding has historically been cash flow from operations, the commercial paper markets have been a source of liquidity for us and we continue to issue commercial paper, although at higher interest rates as a result of the diminished availability of credit. however, there can be no assurance that the commercial paper 17 table of contents markets will continue to be a reliable source of short-term financing. if the commercial paper markets are unavailable or not cost effective, we would use cash on hand and/or draw on our contractually committed revolving credit facilities to refinance the commercial paper when it matures. however, there can be no assurance that, under extreme market conditions, such sources would be available or sufficient. in addition, if the global capital markets continue to deteriorate, including if more financial institutions and companies file for bankruptcy protection, or are taken over by governmental authorities, and if the prices of securities continue to deteriorate and experience extreme volatility, our investment portfolio may be impacted. some of our investments could further experience other-than-temporary declines in fair value, requiring us to record an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial results. our businesses providing pbm services are subject to federal and state regulations associated with the pbm industry and if we fail to comply with these regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we provide pbm services through our prescription solutions and unitedhealthcare businesses. each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern their relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, customers and consumers. in addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could adversely affect current industry practices, including the receipt or required disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies. see item 1, business government regulation for a discussion of various federal and state laws and regulations governing our pbm businesses. in the event a court were to determine that one of our pbm businesses acts as a fiduciary under erisa, we could be subject to claims for alleged breaches of fiduciary obligations in implementation of formularies, preferred drug listings and drug management programs, contracting network practices, specialty drug distribution and other transactions. our pbm businesses also conduct business as mail order pharmacies, which subjects them to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations could expose our pbm subsidiaries to civil and criminal penalties. in addition, we would be adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our mail order pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. further, our pbm businesses are subject to the payment card industry data security standards, which is a multifaceted security standard that includes requirements for security management, policies, procedures, network architecture, software design and other critical protective measures to protect customer account data as mandated by the credit card brands. the failure to adhere to such standards could expose our pbm subsidiaries to liability or impact their ability to process credit card transactions. if we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our businesses compete throughout the united states and face competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. we compete with other companies on the basis of many factors, including price of benefits offered and cost and risk of alternatives, location and choice of health care providers, quality of customer service, comprehensiveness of coverage offered, reputation for quality care, financial stability and diversity of product offerings. for our health care services reporting segment, competitors include aetna inc., cigna corporation, coventry health care, inc., health net, inc., humana inc., kaiser permanente, wellpoint, inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the blue cross blue shield association and other enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas or market segments such as medicare specialty services. for our prescription solutions business, competitors include medco health solutions, inc., cvs/ caremark corporation and express scripts, inc. our optumhealth and ingenix reporting segments also compete with a number of other businesses. 18 table of contents we believe that barriers to entry in many markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. in particular markets, competitors may have capabilities or resources that give them a competitive advantage. greater market share, established reputation, superior supplier or health care professional arrangements, existing business relationships, and other factors all can provide a competitive advantage to our businesses or to their competitors. in addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both as to our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other care professionals) in these industries. consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase customers, to improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or to maintain or advance profitability. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect, if membership or demand for other services declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. as a payer in various government health care programs, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments and audits that could adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and financial results. we participate in various federal, state and local government health care coverage programs, including as a payer in medicare advantage, medicare part d, various medicaid programs and schip, and receive revenues from these programs. these programs generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, or increase our administrative or health care costs under such programs. such changes have adversely affected our financial results and willingness to participate in such programs in the past, and may do so in the future. our participation in the medicare advantage, medicare part d, and various medicaid programs and schip occurs through bids that are submitted periodically. revenues for these programs are dependent upon periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. funding for these government programs is dependent upon many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions at the federal or applicable state level, and general political issues and priorities. a reduction or less than expected increase in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies may adversely affect our revenues and financial results. cms uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for medicare programs, including determining payments by considering the risk status of our medicare members as supported by provider medical record documentation. federal regulators audit the supporting documents and can revise payments based on the audit findings. cms announced in 2008 that it will perform audits of selected medicare health plans each year to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by care providers. these audits involve a review of medical records maintained by providers, including those in and out of network, and may result in retrospective or prospective adjustments to payments made to health plans pursuant to cms medicare contracts. certain of our plans have been selected for audit. the first audits focused on medical records supporting risk adjustment data for 2006 that were used to determine 2007 payment amounts. we are unable to predict the outcome of the audits. however, a material adjustment could have a material effect on our financial results. our ability to retain and acquire medicare, medicaid and schip enrollees is impacted by bids and plan designs submitted by us and our competitors. under the medicaid managed care program, state medicaid agencies are periodically required by federal law to seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care medicaid health programs. if we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state medicaid managed 19 table of contents care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those medicaid plans. under the medicare part d program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a threshold, which is set by the government after our bids are submitted. if the enrollee premium is not below the government threshold, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and we will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. for example, we lost approximately 650,000 of our auto-enrolled low-income subsidy members in 2008 because our bids exceeded thresholds set by the government. in general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, and other factors. in the event any of these assumptions are materially incorrect or our competitors bids and positioning are different than anticipated, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the medicare program or otherwise, our financial results could be materially affected. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers, our business could be adversely affected. we contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other health care providers for competitive prices and services. our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to maintain these competitive prices and services. failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected. in addition, we have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. under the typical arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of premium to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the capitated member. under some capitated arrangements, the provider may also receive additional compensation from risk sharing and other incentive arrangements. capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the professional. to the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider under the capitation arrangement. further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. there can be no assurance that health care providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. in addition, some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. in those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding with the provider about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. in some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. in some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. for example, 20 table of contents we are involved in litigation with out-of-network providers that is described in more detail in legal matters in note 15 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with these out-of-network health care providers could adversely affect our business and results of operations. sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent third party brokers, consultants and agents. our products are sold in part through independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of business. we typically do not have long-term contracts with our independent brokers, consultants and agents, who generally are not exclusive to us and who frequently also recommend and/or market health care products and services of our competitors. as a result, we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. our sales would be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain independent brokers, consultants and agents or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to them regarding our product portfolio, which is complex, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. in addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care products and the payments they receive. these have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling these companies products. for example, cms and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers and agents who market medicare products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practice which could adversely impact our ability to market our products. if we fail to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain its confidentiality, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected. the collection, maintenance, use, disclosure and disposal of individually identifiable data by our businesses are regulated at the international, federal and state levels. these laws and rules are subject to change by legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation. various state laws address the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data to the extent they are more restrictive than those contained in the privacy and security provisions in the federal glba and in hipaa. hipaa also requires that we impose privacy and security requirements on our business associates (as such term is defined in the hipaa regulations). see item 1, business government regulation for a discussion of various federal and state privacy laws and regulations governing our businesses. even though we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our business associates, we still have limited control over their actions and practices. privacy and security requirements regarding personally identifiable information are also imposed on us through controls with our customers. in addition, despite the security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. congress and many states are considering new privacy and security requirements that would apply to our business. compliance with new privacy and security laws, requirements, and new regulations may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes, new limitations or constraints on our business models, the development of new administrative processes, and the effects of potential noncompliance by our business associates. they also may impose further restrictions on our collection, disclosure and use of patient identifiable data that are housed in one or more of our administrative databases. noncompliance with any privacy laws or any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member information, whether by us or by one of our vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations, including: material fines and penalties; compensatory, special, punitive, and statutory damages; consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices; adverse actions against our licenses to do business; and injunctive relief. 21 table of contents our relationship with aarp is important and the loss of such relationship could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. under our agreements with aarp, we provide aarp-branded medicare supplement insurance, hospital indemnity insurance and other products to aarp members and medicare part d prescription drug plans to aarp members and non-members. one of our agreements with aarp expands the relationship to include aarp-branded medicare advantage plans for aarp members and non-members. our agreements with aarp contain commitments regarding corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, diversity and measures intended to improve and simplify the health care experience for consumers. the aarp agreements may be terminated early under certain circumstances, including, depending on the agreement, a material breach by either party, insolvency of either party, a material adverse change in the financial condition of the company, material changes in the medicare programs, material harm to aarp caused by the company, and by mutual agreement. the success of our aarp arrangements depends, in part, on our ability to service aarp and its members, develop additional products and services, price the products and services competitively, meet our corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, and diversity commitments, and respond effectively to federal and state regulatory changes. the loss of our aarp relationship could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. because of the nature of our business, we are routinely subject to various litigation actions, which, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. periodically, we become a party to the types of legal actions that can affect any business, such as employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, shareholder suits, and intellectual property-related litigation. in addition, because of the nature of our business, we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to the design and management of our service offerings. these matters include, among others, claims related to health care benefits coverage and payment (including disputes with enrollees, customers, and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), medical malpractice actions, contract disputes and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. we are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups. we are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. although we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters; however, it is possible that the level of actual losses may exceed the liabilities recorded. a description of material legal actions in which we are currently involved is included in note 15 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. we cannot predict the outcome of these actions with certainty, and we are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. therefore, these legal actions could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. matters relating to or arising out of our historical stock option practices, including regulatory inquiries, litigation matters, and potential additional cash and noncash charges could have a material adverse effect on the company. in early 2006, our board of directors initiated an independent review of the company historical stock option practices from 1994 to 2005. the independent review was conducted by an independent committee comprised of three independent directors of the company (independent committee) with the assistance of independent counsel and independent accounting advisors. on october 15, 2006, we announced that the independent committee had 22 table of contents completed their review of the company historical stock option practices and reported the findings to the non-management directors of the company. as a result of our historical stock option practices, we restated our previously filed financial statements, we incurred certain cash and non-cash charges, we are subject to various regulatory inquiries and litigation matters, and we may be subject to further regulatory inquiries, litigation matters, and cash and noncash charges, the outcome of any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. see note 15 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed description of these regulatory inquiries and litigation matters. our investment portfolio may suffer losses which could materially adversely affect our financial results. fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our profitability and capital position. volatility in interest rates affects our interest income, and the market value of, our investments in fixed income debt securities of varying maturities, which comprise the majority of the fair value of our investments at december 31, 2008. in addition, defaults by issuers, primarily from investments in liquid corporate and municipal bonds, who fail to pay or perform on their obligations, could reduce our investment income and net realized investment gains or result in net realized investment losses as we may be required to write down the value of our investments, which would adversely affect our profitability and shareholders equity. we also invest a small proportion of our investments in equity investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. general economic conditions, stock market conditions, and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our equity investments and may result in investment losses. there can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than the carrying value of these investments. changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, illiquidity or otherwise, could have a negative effect on our shareholders equity. in addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. if the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, shareholders equity and debt ratings could be materially adversely affected. due largely to our past acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $22.4 billion as of december 31, 2008, representing approximately 40% of our total assets. if we make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional intangible assets on our books. we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. any future evaluations requiring an asset impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our results of operations and shareholders equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. a material decrease in shareholders equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. large-scale medical emergencies may result in significant health care costs and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. large-scale medical emergencies can take many forms and can cause widespread illness and death. such emergencies could materially and adversely affect the u.s. economy in general and the health care industry specifically. for example, in the event of a natural disaster, bioterrorism attack, pandemic or other extreme events, we could face, among other things, significant health care costs and increased use of health care services. any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 table of contents if we fail to properly maintain the integrity or availability of our data or to strategically implement new or upgrade or consolidate existing information systems, our business could be materially adversely affected. our ability to adequately price our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to accurately report our financial results depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of technology initiatives, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been taking steps to consolidate and integrate the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, and changing customer patterns. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses were found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, have regulatory problems, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. there can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results. if we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our business could be adversely affected. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. our ability to obtain funds from some of our subsidiaries is restricted and if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our operations or financial position may be adversely affected. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from some of our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. these subsidiaries generally are regulated by states departments of insurance. we are also required by law to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium revenues generated. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from us. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. in addition, we normally notify the state departments of insurance prior to making payments that do not require approval. an inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies could impact the scale to which we could reinvest in our business through capital expenditures, business acquisitions and the repurchase of shares of our common stock and our ability to repay our debt. if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our operations or financial position may be adversely affected. 24 table of contents any failure by us to manage and complete acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are increasingly important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. downgrades in our ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risks are exposures to (a) changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate financial investments and debt and (b) changes in equity prices that impact the value of our equity investments. as of december 31, 2008, approximately $7.4 billion of our financial investments were classified as cash and cash equivalents on which interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may materially impact our investment income. also, approximately $7.2 billion of our debt as of december 31, 2008 was at interest rates that vary with market rates, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap contracts, which may materially impact our interest expense. the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate financial investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. as of december 31, 2008, approximately $13.7 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities, and approximately $5.6 billion of our debt was fixed-rate term debt with no related interest rate swap contracts. an increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. we manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed income market sectors and debt across maturities and interest rate indices, as well as endeavoring to match our floating rate assets and liabilities over time, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap contracts. as part of our risk management strategy, we enter into interest rate swap agreements with financial institutions to manage the impact of market interest rates on interest expense. the differential between the fixed rates received and the variable rates paid is accrued and recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations. our swap agreements converted a majority of our interest expense from a fixed to variable rates to better offset the impact of market rates on our variable rate cash equivalent investments. in january 2009, we terminated $4.9 billion notional of interest rate swap contracts with financial institutions to lock-in the benefit of current low market interest rates. additional information on our derivative financial instruments is included in note 9 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. the following table summarizes the impact of a hypothetical change in market interest rates by 1% or 2% as of december 31, 2008 on our investment income and interest expense per annum, and the fair value of our financial investments and debt (in millions): increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum interest expense per annum (a) fair value of financial investments fair value of debt 2% $ 149 $ 133 $ (1,009 ) $ (719 ) 1% 74 66 (504 ) (392 ) (1)% (74 ) (66 ) 497 436 (2)% (149 ) (133 ) 1,012 974 (a) including the impact of the termination of the interest rate swap contracts in january 2009, a hypothetical 1% change in market interest rates would impact the interest expense per annum by $18 million. as of december 31, 2008, we had $477 million of equity securities and venture capital funds, a portion of which were held in various public and non-public companies concentrated in the areas of health care delivery and related information technologies. market conditions that affect the value of health care or technology stocks will likewise impact the value of our equity investments. 51 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors cautionary statements the statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook contained in this annual report on form 10-k include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (pslra). when used in this annual report on form 10-k and in future filings by us with the sec, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, plan, project, should or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. these statements are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the pslra. these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. the following discussion contains certain cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. in addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. any or all forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. by their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. actual future results may vary materially from expectations expressed in this report or any of our prior communications. 14 table of contents proposed health care reforms could materially adversely affect our revenues, financial position and our results of operations. both houses of congress have recently passed bills relating to health care reform, which have not yet been reconciled with each other and signed into law. examples of health care reform proposals include policy changes that would change the dynamics of the health care industry, including having the federal or one or more state governments assume a larger role in the health care system such as competing with private health insurers, imposing new and potentially significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits, guaranteed coverage requirements, elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions or annual lifetime maximum limits, restrictions on our ability to price products based on our underwriting standards, or restructuring the medicare or medicaid programs, including reducing payments to private plans offering medicare advantage over the intermediate term. in addition, from time to time, congress has considered various forms of managed care reform legislation, which, if adopted, could fundamentally alter the treatment of coverage decisions under erisa. additionally, there is legislative interest in modifying erisa preemptive effect on state laws. if adopted, such limitations could increase our liability exposure and could permit greater state regulation of our operations. a number of state legislatures, including california, colorado, new york, ohio and pennsylvania, have contemplated but have not enacted significant reform of their health insurance markets. other states are expected to consider significant reform of their health insurance markets as well as more modest reforms aimed at expanding medicaid and/or schip eligibility and new coverage options for those not eligible for government programs. these proposals include provisions affecting both public programs and privately financed health insurance arrangements. states also are considering proposals that would reform the underwriting and marketing practices of individual and group health insurance products by, for example, placing restrictions on rating and pricing and mandating minimum medical benefit cost ratios. the enactment of health care reforms at the federal or state level may affect certain aspects of our business, including contracting with physicians, hospitals and/or other health care professionals; medical, administrative, technology or other costs; physician reimbursement methods and payment rates; premium rates; coverage determinations; mandated benefits; minimum medical expenditures; claim payments and processing; drug utilization and patient safety efforts; collection, use, disclosure, maintenance and disposal of individually identifiable health information; personal health records; consumer-driven health plans and health savings accounts and insurance market reforms; and government-sponsored programs. we cannot predict if any of these proposals will ultimately become law, or, if enacted, what their terms or the regulations promulgated pursuant to such laws will be. any health care reforms enacted may be phased in over a number of years but, if enacted, could reduce our revenues, increase our costs, expose us to expanded liability and require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business. in addition, our results of operations, our financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by such changes. if we fail to effectively estimate, price for and manage our medical costs, the profitability of our risk-based products could decline and could materially adversely affect our future financial results. under our risk-based product arrangements, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. premium revenues from risk-based products comprise approximately 90% of our total consolidated revenues. we generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. the profitability of our risk-based products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and effectively manage medical costs. we manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered and the cost of each service. our premium revenue on commercial policies is typically fixed for a 15 table of contents 12-month period and is generally priced one to four months before the contract commences. our revenue on medicare policies is based on bids submitted in june the year before the contract year. we base the premiums we charge and our medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period; however, medical cost inflation, regulation and other factors may cause actual costs to exceed what was estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. these factors may include increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, catastrophes, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology, new mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, insured population characteristics and seasonal changes in the level of health care use. as a measure of the impact of medical costs on our financial results, relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. for example, if medical costs increased by 1% without a proportional change in related revenues for commercial insured products, our annual net earnings for 2009 would have been reduced by approximately $200 million. in addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. these estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. if these estimates prove too low, they will have a negative impact on our future results. our business activities are highly regulated; new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our business is regulated at the federal, state, local and international levels. the laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. for example, in 2009, cms implemented a reduction in medicare advantage reimbursements of approximately 5% for 2010. although we have adjusted members benefits and premiums on a selective basis, terminated benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to these rate reductions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute successfully on these or other strategies to address changes in the medicare advantage program. our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by such reductions. the broad latitude that is given to the agencies administering regulations governing our business, as well as future laws and rules, could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, and increase our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. for example, in october 2008 congress enacted the paul wellstone and pete domenici mental health parity and addiction equity act of 2008 (mhpaea), which requires insurers to provide mental health and substance use disorder benefits under terms that are no more restrictive than those applied to medical and surgical benefits. the mhpaea specifically directed the secretaries of labor, health and human services and the treasury to issue regulations to effectuate the legislation. although regulations regarding how the mhpaea will be implemented were issued on february 2, 2010 in the form of an interim final rule, final regulations have not yet been published. because of the broad range of treatment limitations to which parity is expected to apply under the regulations, the regulations will likely lead to an increase in the costs associated with both insured and self-insured plans for behavioral health benefits and services and impact our market for carve-out health benefit administration, which could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations. we must also obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products, to increase prices for certain regulated products and to complete certain acquisitions and dispositions, including integration of certain acquisitions. delays in obtaining approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce our revenue or increase our costs. in august 2007, we entered into a multi-state national agreement with regulatory offices in 39 states and the district of columbia relating to unitedhealthcare fully insured commercial business administered on the 16 table of contents organization main processing platforms. the agreement covers several key areas of review of our business operations, including claims payment accuracy and timeliness, appeals and grievances resolution timeliness, health care professional network/service, utilization review, explanation of benefits accuracy, and oversight and due diligence of contracted entities and vendor performance. the agreement addressed and resolved past regulatory matters related to the areas of review prior to august 2007 and establishes a transparent framework for evaluating and regulating performance through december 2010. the agreement is similar to a customer performance guarantee, whereby we self report quarterly and annually our current operational performance on a set of national performance standards agreed to by the participating states. we must perform to the standards set forth in the agreement, or be subject to fines and penalties. we are also involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. these regulatory activities include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by cms, state insurance and health and welfare departments and state attorneys general, the office of the inspector general, the office of personnel management, the office of civil rights, u.s. congressional committees, the u.s. department of justice, u.s. attorneys, the sec, the irs, the u.s. department of labor and other governmental authorities. for example, in 2007, the california department of insurance examined our pacificare health insurance plan in california. the examination findings related to claims processing accuracy and timeliness, accurate and timely interest payments, timely implementation of provider contracts, timely, accurate provider dispute resolution, and other related matters. the matter is now the subject of an administrative proceeding before an administrative law judge. in addition, the u.s. department of labor is conducting an investigation of our administration of our employee benefit plans with respect to erisa compliance. reviews and investigations of this sort can lead to government actions, which can result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, the health care industry is subject to negative publicity. negative publicity, including negative publicity surrounding routine governmental investigations, may adversely affect our stock price, damage our reputation in various markets and result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by adversely affecting our ability to market our products and services, requiring us to change our products and services, or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. for a discussion of various federal and state laws and regulations governing our businesses, see item 1, business government regulation. adverse economic conditions could adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. the current recessionary u.s. economic environment may continue to impact demand for certain of our products and services. for example, higher unemployment rates and significant employment layoffs and downsizings have caused and could continue to lead to lower enrollment in our employer group plans, lower enrollment in our non-employer individual plans and a higher number of employees opting out of our employer group plans. adverse economic conditions have caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. in addition, the economic downturn could continue to negatively impact our employer group renewal prospects and our ability to increase premiums and could result in cancellation of products and services by our customers. all of these could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, a prolonged economic downturn could negatively impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers and therefore could adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs. 17 table of contents during a prolonged economic downturn, state and federal budgets could be adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including medicare, medicaid and schip. a reduction in state medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to payments already negotiated and/or received from the government and could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. in addition, the state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the government to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and health maintenance organizations and surcharges on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims, and could adversely affect our results of operations. our businesses providing pbm services face regulatory and other risks and uncertainties associated with the pbm industry that may differ from the risks of our business of providing managed care and health insurance products. we provide pbm services through our prescription solutions and unitedhealthcare businesses. each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern their relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, customers and consumers. in addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could adversely affect current industry practices, including the receipt or required disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies. see item 1, business government regulation for a discussion of various federal and state laws and regulations governing our pbm businesses. our pbm businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to erisa. the dol, which is the agency that enforces erisa, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pbm businesses even where our pbm businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. in the event a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply to our pbm businesses in connection with services for which our pbm businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or entering into certain prohibited transactions. prescription solutions also conducts business as a mail order pharmacy, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations could expose prescription solutions to civil and criminal penalties. further, prescription solutions is subject to the payment card industry data security standards, which is a multifaceted security standard that includes requirements for security management, policies, procedures, network architecture, software design and other critical protective measures to protect customer account data as mandated by the credit card brands. the failure to adhere to such standards could expose prescription solutions to liability or impact their ability to process credit card transactions. in addition, our pbm businesses would be adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our mail order pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. disruptions at any of our mail order pharmacies due to failure of technology or any other failure or disruption to these systems or to the infrastructure due to fire, electrical outage, natural disaster, acts of terrorism or some other catastrophic event could reduce our ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to customers. if we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our businesses compete throughout the united states and face competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. we compete with other companies on the basis of many factors, including price of benefits offered and cost and risk of alternatives, location and choice of health care providers, quality of customer service, 18 table of contents comprehensiveness of coverage offered, reputation for quality care, financial stability and diversity of product offerings. for our health benefits reporting segment, competitors include aetna inc., cigna corporation, coventry health care, inc., health net, inc., humana inc., kaiser permanente, wellpoint, inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the blue cross blue shield association and other enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas or market segments such as medicare specialty services. for our prescription solutions business, competitors include medco health solutions, inc., cvs/caremark corporation and express scripts, inc. our optumhealth and ingenix reporting segments also compete with a broad and diverse set of other businesses. we believe that barriers to entry in many markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. in particular markets, competitors may have capabilities or resources that give them a competitive advantage. greater market share, established reputation, superior supplier or health care professional arrangements, existing business relationships, and other factors all can provide a competitive advantage to our businesses or to their competitors. in addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both as to our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other care professionals) in these industries. consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase customers, to improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or to maintain or advance profitability. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect, if membership or demand for other services declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. as a payer in various government health care programs, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments and audits that could adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations. we participate in various federal, state and local government health care coverage programs, including as a payer in medicare advantage, medicare part d, various medicaid programs and schip, and receive revenues from these programs. these programs generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. for example, cms recently implemented a reduction in medicare advantage reimbursements of approximately 5% for 2010. such changes have adversely affected our results of operations and willingness to participate in such programs in certain geographic areas in the past, and may do so in the future. our participation in the medicare advantage, medicare part d, and various medicaid programs and schip occurs through bids that are submitted periodically. revenues for these programs are dependent upon periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. funding for these government programs is dependent upon many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level, and general political issues and priorities. a reduction or less than expected increase in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. cms uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for medicare programs, including determining payments by considering the risk status of our medicare members as supported by provider medical record documentation. federal regulators audit the supporting documents and can revise payments based on the audit findings. cms announced in 2008 that it will perform audits of selected medicare health plans each year to 19 table of contents validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by care providers. these audits involve a review of medical records maintained by providers, including those in and out of network, and may result in prospective and retrospective adjustments to payments made to health plans pursuant to cms medicare contracts. certain of our plans have been selected for audit. the first audits focused on medical records supporting risk adjustment data for 2006 that were used to determine 2007 payment amounts. the office of inspector general for hhs is conducting an audit of our risk adjustment data for two plans. we are unable to predict the outcome of the audits. however, any material adjustments could have a material effect on our results of operations. our ability to retain and acquire medicare, medicaid and schip enrollees is impacted by bids and plan designs submitted by our competitors and us. under the medicaid managed care program, state medicaid agencies are periodically required by federal law to seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care medicaid health programs. if we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state medicaid managed care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those medicaid plans. under the medicare part d program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a threshold, which is set by the government after our bids are submitted. if the enrollee premium is not below the government threshold, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and we will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. for example, we lost approximately 650,000 of our auto-enrolled low-income subsidy members in 2008 because certain of our bids exceeded thresholds set by the government. in general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, and other factors. in the event any of these assumptions are materially incorrect or our competitors bids and positioning are different than anticipated, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the medicare program or otherwise, our results of operations could be materially affected. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers, our business could be adversely affected. we contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other health care providers for competitive prices and services. our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to maintain these competitive prices and services. failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected. in addition, we have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. under the typical arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of premium to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the capitated member. under some capitated arrangements, the provider may also receive additional compensation from risk sharing and other incentive arrangements. capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the professional. to the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider under the capitation arrangement. further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with 20 table of contents whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. there can be no assurance that health care providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. in addition, some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. in those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding with the provider about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. in some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances, it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. in some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. for example, we are involved in litigation with out-of-network providers that is described in more detail in legal matters in note 14 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with out-of-network health care providers could adversely affect our business and results of operations. sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent third party brokers, consultants and agents. our products are sold in part through independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of business. we typically do not have long-term contracts with our independent brokers, consultants and agents, who generally are not exclusive to us and who typically also recommend and/or market health care products and services of our competitors. as a result, we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. our sales would be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain independent brokers, consultants and agents or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to them regarding our product portfolio, which is complex, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. in addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care products and the payments they receive. these have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling these companies products. for example, cms and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers and agents who market medicare products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practice, which could adversely impact our ability to market our products. if we fail to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and data security regulations, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain its confidentiality and security, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected. the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of individually identifiable data by our businesses are regulated at the international, federal and state levels. these laws and rules are subject to change by legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation. various state laws address the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information to the extent they are more restrictive than those contained in the privacy and security provisions in the federal glba and in hipaa. hipaa now requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. see item 1, business government regulation for a discussion of various federal and state privacy laws and regulations governing our businesses. even though we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our business associates and in certain cases assess our business associates security controls, we still have limited control over their actions and 21 table of contents practices. privacy and security requirements regarding personally identifiable information are also imposed on us through controls with our customers. in addition, despite the security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. compliance with new privacy and security laws, requirements, and new regulations, such as arra, will result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes (including further implementation of encryption and other data protection standards), new limitations or constraints on our business models, the development of new administrative processes, the effects of potential noncompliance by our business associates, and increased enforcement actions and fines and penalties. they also may impose further restrictions on our collection, disclosure and use of patient identifiable data that is housed in one or more of our administrative databases. noncompliance with any privacy or security laws and regulations or any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member information, whether by us or by one of our business associates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations, including mandatory disclosure to the media, significant increase in the number and cost of managing and remediating data security incidents, increased enforcement actions, material fines and penalties, compensatory, special, punitive, and statutory damages, litigation, consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices, adverse actions against our licenses to do business, and injunctive relief. our relationship with aarp is important and the loss of such relationship could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. under our agreements with aarp, we provide aarp-branded medicare supplement insurance, hospital indemnity insurance and other products to aarp members and medicare part d prescription drug plans to aarp members and non-members. one of our agreements with aarp expands the relationship to include aarp-branded medicare advantage plans for aarp members and non-members. our agreements with aarp contain commitments regarding corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, diversity and measures intended to improve and simplify the health care experience for consumers. the aarp agreements may be terminated early under certain circumstances, including, depending on the agreement, a material breach by either party, insolvency of either party, a material adverse change in the financial condition of the company, material changes in the medicare programs, material harm to aarp caused by the company, and by mutual agreement. the success of our aarp arrangements depends, in part, on our ability to service aarp and its members, develop additional products and services, price the products and services competitively, meet our corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, and diversity commitments, and respond effectively to federal and state regulatory changes. the loss of our aarp relationship could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. because of the nature of our business, we are routinely subject to various litigation actions, which, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. periodically, we become a party to the types of legal actions that can affect any business, such as employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, shareholder suits, and intellectual property-related litigation. in addition, because of the nature of our business, we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to the design and management of our service offerings. these matters include, among others, claims related to health care benefits coverage and payment (including disputes with enrollees, customers, and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort, contract disputes and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. we are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups. we are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. although we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive 22 table of contents damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters; however, it is possible that the level of actual losses will exceed the liabilities recorded. a description of significant legal actions in which we are currently involved is included in note 14 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. we cannot predict the outcome of these actions with certainty, and we are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. therefore, these legal actions could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our profitability and capital position. volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which comprise the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of december 31, 2009. in addition, defaults by issuers, primarily from investments in liquid corporate and municipal bonds, who fail to pay or perform on their obligations, could reduce our investment income and net realized investment gains or result in net realized investment losses as we may be required to write down the value of our investments, which would adversely affect our profitability and shareholders equity. we also invest a small proportion of our investments in equity investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. general economic conditions, stock market conditions, and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our equity investments and may result in investment losses. there can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than the carrying value of these investments. changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, illiquidity or otherwise, could have a negative effect on our shareholders equity. in addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. if the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, shareholders equity and debt ratings could be materially adversely affected. goodwill and other intangible assets were $23.1 billion as of december 31, 2009, representing 39% of our total assets. we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. for example, the enactment of health care reforms may impact our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets in some of our businesses, as any passed legislation may significantly change the growth rate assumptions for some of our businesses. any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our results of operations and shareholders equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. a material decrease in shareholders equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. large-scale medical emergencies may result in significant medical costs and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. large-scale medical emergencies can take many forms and can cause widespread illness and death. such emergencies could materially and adversely affect the u.s. economy in general and the health care industry specifically. for example, in the event of a natural disaster, bioterrorism attack, pandemic or other extreme events, we could face, among other things, significant medical costs and increased use of health care services. any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 table of contents if we fail to properly maintain the integrity or availability of our data or to strategically implement new or upgrade or consolidate existing information systems, our business could be materially adversely affected. our ability to adequately price our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to accurately report our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been taking steps to consolidate and integrate the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, and changing customer patterns. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses were found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. there can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our business could be adversely affected. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. our ability to obtain funds from some of our subsidiaries is restricted and if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our operations or financial position may be adversely affected. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from some of our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. these subsidiaries generally are regulated by states departments of insurance. we are also required by law to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium revenues generated. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from us. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. in addition, we normally notify the state departments of insurance prior to making payments that do not require approval. an inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies could impact the scale to which we could reinvest in our business through capital expenditures, business acquisitions and the repurchase of shares of our common stock and our ability to repay our debt. if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our operations or financial position may be adversely affected. 24 table of contents any failure by us to manage and complete acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully could harm our results of operations, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. for acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations. if we are unable to successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our results of operations could be adversely affected. downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. claims paying ability, financial strength, and credit ratings by recognized rating organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risks are exposures to (a) changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and interest expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate financial investments and debt and (b) changes in equity prices that impact the value of our equity investments. as of december 31, 2009, $9.8 billion of our financial investments were classified as cash and cash equivalents on which interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may materially impact our investment income. also, $750 million of our debt as of december 31, 2009 was at interest rates that vary with market rates. the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate financial investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. as of december 31, 2009, $14.0 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities and $10.4 billion of our debt was fixed-rate term debt. an increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. we manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed income market sectors and debt across maturities and interest rate indices, as well as endeavoring to match our floating rate assets and liabilities over time in normal markets, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap 50 table of contents contracts. as part of our risk management strategy, we may enter into interest rate swap agreements with financial institutions to manage the impact of market interest rates on interest expense. in january 2009, we terminated interest rate swap contracts with $4.9 billion in notional value to lock-in the benefit of low market interest rates. this gain will be realized over the remaining life of the applicable hedged fixed-rate debt as a reduction to interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations. the following table summarizes the impact of a hypothetical change in market interest rates by 1% or 2% as of december 31, 2009 on our investment income and interest expense per annum, and the fair value of our financial investments and debt (in millions): increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of financial investments fair value of debt 2% $ 196 $ 15 $ (1,059 ) $ (1,187 ) 1 98 8 (540 ) (633 ) (1) (15 ) (6 ) 541 730 (2) nm nm 1,075 1,579 nm = not meaningful (a) given the low absolute level of short-term market rates on our floating rate assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2009, the assumed hypothetical change in interest rates has been floored at zero and does not reflect the full 1% point reduction in interest income or interest expense. as of december 31, 2009, we had $577 million of equity securities and venture capital funds, a portion of which were invested in various public and non-public companies concentrated in the areas of health care delivery and related information technologies. market conditions that affect the value of health care or technology stocks will likewise impact the value of our equity investments. 51 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors cautionary statements the statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook contained in this annual report on form 10-k include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (pslra). when used in this annual report on form 10-k and in future filings by us with the sec, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, plan, project, should or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. these statements are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the pslra. these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. the following discussion contains certain cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. in addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. any or all forward-looking statements in this form 10-k and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. by their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. actual future results may vary materially from expectations expressed in this report or any of our prior communications. if we fail to effectively estimate, price for and manage our medical costs, the profitability of our risk-based products could decline and could materially adversely affect our future financial results. under our risk-based product arrangements, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. premium revenues from risk-based products comprise approximately 90% of our total consolidated revenues. we generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. the profitability of our risk-based products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and effectively manage medical costs. in this regard, the health reform legislation requires hhs to maintain an annual review process of unreasonable increases in premiums for commercial health plans, and states have a variety of premium review and approval processes that are receiving increased scrutiny. we manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered and the cost of each service. our premium revenue on commercial policies is typically at a fixed rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to four months before the contract commences. our revenue on medicare policies is based on bids submitted in june the year before the contract year. we base the premiums we charge and our medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period; however, medical cost inflation, regulation and other factors may cause actual costs to exceed what was estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. these factors may include increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, catastrophes, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly 18 table of contents treatments and technology, new mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, insured population characteristics and seasonal changes in the level of health care use. as a measure of the impact of medical costs on our financial results, relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. for example, if medical costs increased by 1% without a proportional change in related revenues for commercial insured products, our annual net earnings for 2010 would have been reduced by approximately $190 million. in addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. these estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. if these estimates prove too low, they will have a negative impact on our future results. our business activities are highly regulated; new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our business is regulated at the federal, state, local and international levels. the laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. for example, in the first quarter of 2010, the health reform legislation was signed into law, legislating broad-based changes to the u.s. health care system. see item 1, business government regulation for a discussion of the health reform legislation. the broad latitude that is given to the agencies administering regulations governing our business, as well as future laws and rules, and interpretation of those laws and rules by governmental enforcement authorities, could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, and increase our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. for example, in october 2008 congress enacted the paul wellstone and pete domenici mental health parity and addiction equity act of 2008 (mhpaea), which requires insurers to provide mental health and substance use disorder benefits under terms that are no more restrictive than those applied to medical and surgical benefits. the mhpaea specifically directed the secretaries of labor, health and human services and the treasury to issue regulations to implement the legislation. although regulations regarding how the mhpaea was to be implemented were issued on february 2, 2010 in the form of an interim final rule, final regulations have not yet been published and interpretative guidance from the regulators has been limited to date. because of the broad range of treatment limitations to which parity is expected to apply under the regulations, the regulations will likely lead to an increase in the costs associated with both insured and self-insured plans for behavioral health benefits and services and impact our market for carve-out health benefit administration, which could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations. we must also obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products, to increase prices for certain regulated products and to complete certain acquisitions and dispositions, including integration of certain acquisitions. delays in obtaining approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce our revenue or increase our costs. under state guaranty fund laws, certain insurance companies (and hmos in some states), including those issuing health (which includes long-term care), life and accident insurance policies, doing business in those states can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or lines of business. changes in these laws or the interpretation thereof, or insolvency by another insurer, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. see note 13 of notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for a discussion of a matter involving penn treaty, which has been placed in rehabilitation. certain optumhealth businesses are also subject to regulatory and other risks and uncertainties that may differ from the risks of our businesses of providing managed care and health insurance products. for example, the businesses are subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws and regulations, such as those that govern 19 table of contents so-called corporate practice of medicine and fee-splitting, which govern their relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. additionally, our financial services business may be impacted by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act which became law on july 21, 2010. the act calls for extensive rulemaking, including debit card interchange fees restrictions, and network exclusivity and routing requirements, and depending on rulemaking and implementation activities, could subject us to additional regulation, increase operational costs and reduce revenue. we are also involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. these regulatory activities include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by cms, state insurance and health and welfare departments and state attorneys general, the office of the inspector general, the office of personnel management, the office of civil rights, u.s. congressional committees, the u.s. department of justice, u.s. attorneys, the sec, the irs, the u.s. department of labor, the fdic and other governmental authorities. for example, in 2007, the california department of insurance examined our pacificare health insurance plan in california. the examination findings related to the timeliness and accuracy of claims processing, interest payments, provider contract implementation, provider dispute resolution and other related matters. the matter is now the subject of an administrative proceeding before an administrative law judge. see note 13 of notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for a discussion of this matter. see also the risk factor below relating to our activities as a payer in various government health care programs for a discussion of audits of data used in determining cms payment rates. reviews and investigations of this sort can lead to government actions, which can result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, the health care industry is regularly subject to negative publicity. negative publicity, including negative publicity surrounding routine governmental investigations or the political environment, may adversely affect our stock price, damage our reputation in various markets and result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by adversely affecting our ability to market our products and services, requiring us to change our products and services, or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. for a discussion of various federal and state laws and regulations governing our businesses, see item 1, business government regulation. the enactment or implementation of health care reforms could materially adversely affect the manner in which we conduct business and our revenues, financial position and results of operations. in the first quarter of 2010, the health reform legislation was signed into law. the health reform legislation expands access to coverage and modifies aspects of the commercial insurance market, as well as the medicaid and medicare programs and chip and other aspects of the health care system. among other things, the health reform legislation includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, establishes minimum medical loss ratios, creates a federal premium review process, imposes new requirements on the format and content of communications (such as explanations of benefits, or eobs) between health insurers and their members, grants to members new and additional appeal rights, imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits, reduces the medicare part d coverage gap and reduces payments to private plans offering medicare advantage. 20 table of contents certain provisions of the health reform legislation have already taken effect, and other provisions become effective at various dates over the next several years. hhs, the dol and the treasury department have issued regulations (or proposed regulations) on a number of aspects of health reform legislation, but we await final rules and interim guidance on other key aspects of the legislation. due to the complexity of the health reform legislation, the impact of the health reform legislation remains difficult to predict and is not yet fully known. for example, the health reform legislation established minimum medical loss ratios for all commercial health plans in the large employer group, small employer group and individual markets (85% for large employer groups, 80% for small employer groups and 80% for individuals, calculated under the definitions in the health reform legislation and regulations). companies with medical loss ratios below these targets will be required to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their customers annually. depending on the results of the calculation and the manner in which we adjust our business model in light of this requirement, there could be meaningful disruptions in local health care markets, and our market share, revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in addition, the health reform legislation requires the establishment of state-based health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers by 2014. the types of exchange participation requirements ultimately enacted by each state, the availability of federal premium subsidies within exchanges, the potential for differential imposition of state benefit mandates inside and outside the exchanges, and the possibility that certain states may restrict the ability of health plans to continue to offer coverage to individuals and small employers outside of the exchanges, could result in disruptions in local health care markets and our revenues, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. several of the provisions in the health reform legislation will likely increase our medical cost trends. examples of these provisions are the excise tax on medical devices, annual fees on prescription drug manufacturers, enhanced coverage requirements and the prohibition of pre-existing condition exclusions. the annual insurance industry assessment ($8 billion levied on the insurance industry in 2014 with increasing annual amounts thereafter), which is not deductible for income tax purposes, will increase our operating costs. premium increases will be necessary to offset the impact these and other provisions will have on our medical and operating costs. these premium increases are oftentimes subject to state regulatory approval, and, as required under the health reform legislation, hhs recently issued proposed rules that, if implemented, would establish a federal premium rate review process for annual premium rate increases, generally of 10% or more. if we are not able to secure approval for adequate premium increases to offset increases in our cost structure, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in addition, plans deemed to have a history of unreasonable rate increases may be prohibited from participating in the state-based exchanges that become active under the health reform legislation in 2014. the congressional budget office has estimated that up to 32 million new individuals may eventually gain insurance coverage if the health reform legislation is implemented broadly in its current form. in addition, we expect that implementation of the health reform legislation will increase the demand for products and capabilities offered by our health services businesses. we have made and will continue to make strategic decisions and investments based, in part, on these assumptions, and our results of operations or financial position could be adversely affected if fewer individuals gain coverage under the health reform legislation than estimated or we are unable to attract these new individuals to our health benefits offerings, or if the demand for our health services businesses does not increase. certain aspects of the health reform legislation are also being challenged in federal court, with the proponents of such challenges seeking to limit the scope of or have all or portions of the health reform legislation declared unconstitutional. for example, on january 31, 2011, in a case brought on behalf of 26 state attorneys general and/or governors and certain other parties, the united states district court for the northern district of florida ruled that the provision in the health reform legislation that requires individuals to purchase health insurance (or be subject to penalties), along with the entire legislation, is unconstitutional. the united states district court for the eastern district of virginia has held that the individual mandate and certain related provisions are unconstitutional, but without declaring the entire legislation unconstitutional. congress may also withhold the funding necessary to implement the health reform legislation, or may attempt to replace the legislation with 21 table of contents amended provisions or repeal it altogether. any partial or complete repeal or amendment or implementation difficulties, or uncertainty regarding such events, could adversely impact our ability to capitalize on the opportunities presented by the health reform legislation or may cause us to incur additional costs of compliance. for example, if the individual mandate is declared unconstitutional without corresponding changes to other provisions of the health reform legislation to protect against the risk of adverse selection (such as revisions to the guaranteed issue and renewal requirements, prohibition on pre-existing condition exclusions, and rating restrictions), our financial position and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. congress is also considering additional health care reform measures, and a number of state legislatures have enacted or are contemplating significant reforms of their health insurance markets. the effects of the health reform legislation and recently adopted state laws, and the regulations that have been and will be promulgated thereunder, are difficult to predict, and we cannot predict whether any other federal or state proposals will ultimately become law. such laws and rules could force us to materially change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth in certain products and market segments, restrict premium growth rates for certain products and market segments, change the nature of our contracted network relationships, increase our medical and administrative costs and capital requirements, expose us to an increased risk of liability (including increasing our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations and contract interpretation) or put us at risk for loss of business. in addition, our results of operations, our market share, our financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill, and our cash flows could be materially adversely affected by such changes. for additional information regarding the health reform legislation, see item 1, business government regulation and item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive overview business trends health care reforms. as a payer in various government health care programs, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments and audits that could adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations. we participate in various federal, state and local government health care coverage programs, including as a payer in medicare advantage, medicare part d, various medicaid programs and chip, and receive revenues from these programs. these programs generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. for example, in 2009, cms implemented a reduction in medicare advantage reimbursements of approximately 5% for 2010, and as part of the health reform legislation, medicare advantage payment rates for 2011 were frozen at 2010 levels. separately, cms implemented a reduction in medicare advantage reimbursements of 1.6% for 2011. beginning in 2012, additional cuts to medicare advantage plans will take effect, with changes being phased-in over two to six years, depending on the level of payment reduction in a county. although we have adjusted members benefits and premiums on a selective basis, terminated benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to these rate reductions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute successfully on these or other strategies to address changes in the medicare advantage program. as part of the health reform legislation, cms has developed a system whereby plans that meet certain quality ratings will be entitled to various quality bonus payments, and there can be no assurance that our plans will meet these quality ratings. our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by funding reductions, or if our plans do not meet the requirements to receive quality bonus payments. our participation in the medicare advantage, medicare part d, and various medicaid and chip programs occurs through bids that are submitted periodically. revenues for these programs are dependent upon periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various 22 table of contents payment mechanisms. funding for these government programs is dependent upon many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level, and general political issues and priorities. a reduction or less than expected increase in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. cms uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for medicare programs, including adjusting monthly capitation payments to medicare advantage and medicare part d plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers. in 2008, cms announced that it will perform risk adjustment data validation (radv) audits of selected medicare health plans each year to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers, and certain of our local plans have been selected for audit. these audits may result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to health plans. in december 2010, cms published for public comment a new proposed radv audit and payment adjustment methodology. the proposed methodology contains provisions allowing retroactive contract level payment adjustments for the year audited using an extrapolation of the error rate identified in audit samples. depending on the methodology utilized, potential payment adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, we are in discussions with the office of inspector general for hhs regarding audits of our risk adjustment data for two local plans. we are unable to predict the outcome of these audits and discussions. however, any payment adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. see note 13 of notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for additional information regarding these audits. in 2009, as part of arra and in an effort to relieve pressure resulting from state fiscal problems and rising medicaid enrollments, congress increased the federal medical assistance percentage (fmap), temporarily increasing federal funding for state medicaid programs. the enhanced fmap was set to expire at the end of 2010. federal legislation was passed in august 2010 that extended additional enhanced fmap funding through june 2011. the ability of states to sustain their medicaid programs may be adversely affected if congress does not continue the enhanced fmap beyond june 2011, which could result in a reduction of the scope of the programs, member disenrollment, rate reductions or other adverse actions. under the medicaid managed care program, state medicaid agencies are periodically required by federal law to seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care medicaid health programs. if we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state medicaid managed care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those medicaid plans. under the medicare part d program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a threshold, which is calculated by the government after our bids are submitted. if the enrollee premium is not below the government threshold, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and we will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. for example, we lost approximately 650,000 of our auto-enrolled low-income subsidy members in 2008 because certain of our bids exceeded thresholds set by the government. in general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, and other factors. in the event any of these assumptions are materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the medicare program or other programs on which we bid, or our competitors submit bids that are more favorable than our bids, our results of operations could be materially affected. if we fail to comply with requirements of privacy and security regulations, including taking steps to ensure that our third-party service providers who obtain access to sensitive personal information maintain its confidentiality and security, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected. the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information by our businesses are regulated at the international, federal and state levels. these laws and rules are subject to change by legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation. various state laws address the use and disclosure of sensitive personal information to the extent they are more restrictive than those contained in the 23 table of contents privacy and security provisions in the federal glba and in hipaa. hipaa now requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. see item 1, business government regulation for a discussion of various federal and state privacy laws and regulations governing our businesses. even though we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we still have limited control over their actions and practices. privacy and security requirements regarding sensitive personal information are also imposed on us through controls with our customers. in addition, despite the security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. compliance with new privacy and security laws, requirements, and new regulations, such as arra, will result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes (including further implementation of encryption and other data protection standards), new limitations or constraints on our business models, the development of new administrative processes, the effects of potential noncompliance by our third-party service providers, and increased enforcement actions and fines and penalties. they also may impose further restrictions on our collection, disclosure and use of sensitive personal information that is housed in one or more of our administrative databases. we are awaiting final hhs regulations for many key aspects of the arra amendments to hipaa. noncompliance with any privacy or security laws and regulations or any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations, including mandatory disclosure to the media, significant increase in the number and cost of managing and remediating data security incidents, increased enforcement actions, material fines and penalties, compensatory, special, punitive, and statutory damages, litigation, consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices, adverse actions against our licenses to do business, and injunctive relief. our businesses providing pbm services face regulatory and other risks and uncertainties associated with the pbm industry that may differ from the risks of our business of providing managed care and health insurance products. we provide pbm services through our prescription solutions and unitedhealthcare businesses. each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern their relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, customers and consumers. in addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could adversely affect current industry practices, including the receipt or required disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies, and the use of average wholesale prices. see item 1, business government regulation for a discussion of various federal and state laws and regulations governing our pbm businesses. our pbm businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to erisa. the dol, which is the agency that enforces erisa, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pbm businesses even where our pbm businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. in the event a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply to our pbm businesses in connection with services for which our pbm businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or entering into certain prohibited transactions. prescription solutions also conducts business as a mail order pharmacy and specialty pharmacy, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. the failure to adhere to these laws and regulations could expose prescription solutions to civil and criminal penalties. further, prescription solutions is subject to the payment card industry data security standards, which is a multifaceted security standard that includes requirements for security management, policies, procedures, network architecture, software design and other critical protective measures to protect customer account data as mandated by the credit card brands. the failure to adhere to such standards could expose prescription solutions to liability or impact their ability to process credit card transactions. 24 table of contents in addition, our pbm businesses would be adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers, and could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our mail order or specialty pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. disruptions at any of our mail order or specialty pharmacies due to failure of technology or any other failure or disruption to these systems or to the infrastructure due to fire, electrical outage, natural disaster, acts of terrorism or some other catastrophic event could reduce our ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to customers. if we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our businesses compete throughout the united states and face competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. we compete with other companies on the basis of many factors, including price of benefits offered and cost and risk of alternatives, location and choice of health care providers, quality of customer service, comprehensiveness of coverage offered, reputation for quality care, financial stability and diversity of product offerings. for our health benefits reporting segment, competitors include aetna inc., cigna corporation, coventry health care, inc., health net, inc., humana inc., kaiser permanente, wellpoint, inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the blue cross blue shield association and other enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas or market segments such as medicare specialty services. for our prescription solutions business, competitors include medco health solutions, inc., cvs/caremark corporation and express scripts, inc. our optumhealth and ingenix reporting segments also compete with a broad and diverse set of other businesses. in particular markets, competitors may have greater capabilities, resources or market share; a more established reputation; superior supplier or health care professional arrangements; existing business relationships; or other factors that give such competitors a competitive advantage. in addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both as to our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other care professionals) in these industries. consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase customers, to improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or to maintain or advance profitability. if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect, if membership or demand for other services declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. adverse economic conditions could adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. adverse economic conditions may continue to impact demand for certain of our products and services. for example, decreases in employment have caused and could continue to cause lower enrollment in our employer group plans, lower enrollment in our non-employer individual plans and a higher number of employees opting out of our employer group plans. adverse economic conditions have caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. in addition, adverse economic conditions could continue to negatively impact our employer group renewal prospects and our ability to increase premiums and could result in cancellation of products and services by our customers. all of these could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, a prolonged adverse economic environment could negatively impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. 25 table of contents during a prolonged adverse economic environment, state and federal budgets could be adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including medicare, medicaid and chip. a reduction in state medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to payments already negotiated and/or received from the government and could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. in addition, the state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the government to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and health maintenance organizations and surcharges on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims, and could adversely affect our results of operations. if we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers, our business could be adversely affected. we contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other health care providers for competitive prices and services. our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to maintain these competitive prices and services. failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. in some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. in addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected. in addition, we have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. under the typical arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of premium to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the capitated member. under some capitated arrangements, the provider may also receive additional compensation from risk sharing and other incentive arrangements. capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the professional. to the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider under the capitation arrangement. further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. there can be no assurance that health care providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. any of these events could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. in those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. in some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances, it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that does not clearly specify dollar terms. in some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. for example, we are involved in litigation with out-of-network providers that is described in more detail in litigation matters in note 13 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. 26 table of contents the success of certain optumhealth businesses depends on maintaining physician relationships. the primary care physicians that practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. if we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with primary care physicians, or to retain enrollees following the departure of a physician, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and certain health care providers are customers of our health services businesses. given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could adversely affect our business and results of operations. sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent third-party brokers, consultants and agents. our products are sold in part through independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of business. we typically do not have long-term contracts with our independent brokers, consultants and agents, who generally are not exclusive to us and who typically also recommend and/or market health care products and services of our competitors. as a result, we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. our sales would be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain independent brokers, consultants and agents or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to them regarding our product portfolio, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. because broker and agent commissions are included as health insurer administrative expenses under the medical loss ratio requirements of the health reform legislation, these expenses will be under the same cost reduction pressures as other health insurer administrative costs. our relationships with brokers and agents could be adversely impacted by changes in our businesses practices to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commissions and changes in the treatment of consulting fees. in addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care products and the payments they receive. these have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling these companies products. for example, cms and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers and agents who market medicare products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practice, which could adversely impact our ability to market our products. our relationship with aarp is important and the loss of such relationship could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. under our agreements with aarp, we provide aarp-branded medicare supplement insurance, hospital indemnity insurance and other products to aarp members and medicare part d prescription drug plans to aarp members and non-members. one of our agreements with aarp expands the relationship to include aarp-branded medicare advantage plans for aarp members and non-members. our agreements with aarp contain commitments regarding corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, diversity and measures intended to improve and simplify the health care experience for consumers. the aarp agreements may be terminated early under certain circumstances, including, depending on the agreement, a material breach by either party, insolvency of either party, a material adverse change in our financial condition, material changes in the medicare programs, material harm to aarp caused by us, and by mutual agreement. the success of our aarp arrangements depends, in part, on our ability to service aarp and its members, develop additional products and services, price the products and services competitively, meet our corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, and diversity commitments, and respond effectively to federal and state regulatory changes. the loss of our aarp relationship could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 27 table of contents because of the nature of our business, we are routinely subject to various litigation actions, which, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. periodically, we become a party to the types of legal actions that can affect any business, such as employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, medical malpractice, shareholder suits, and intellectual property-related litigation. in addition, because of the nature of our business, we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to the design and management of our service offerings. these matters include, among others, claims related to health care benefits coverage and payment (including disputes with enrollees, customers, and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort, contract disputes and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. we are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups. we are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. although we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters; however, it is possible that the level of actual losses will exceed the liabilities recorded. a description of significant legal actions in which we are currently involved is included in note 13 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. we cannot predict the outcome of these actions with certainty, and we are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. therefore, these legal actions could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which comprise the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of december 31, 2010. relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have negatively impacted our investment income, and a prolonged low interest rate environment could further adversely affect our investment income. in addition, defaults by issuers, primarily from investments in liquid corporate and municipal bonds, who fail to pay or perform on their obligations, could reduce our net investment income as we may be required to write down the value of our investments, which would adversely affect our profitability and shareholders equity. we also allocate a small proportion of our portfolio to equity investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. general economic conditions, stock market conditions, and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our equity investments and may result in investment losses. there can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than their carrying values. changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, illiquidity or otherwise, could have a negative effect on our shareholders equity. in addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of regulated subsidiaries. if the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, shareholders equity and debt ratings could be materially adversely affected. goodwill and other intangible assets were $25.7 billion as of december 31, 2010, representing 41% of our total assets. we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. for example, the 28 table of contents manner in or the extent to which the health reform legislation is implemented may impact our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets in our business. in addition, from time to time we divest businesses as part of our business strategy, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our results of operations and shareholders equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. a material decrease in shareholders equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. large-scale medical emergencies may result in significant medical costs and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. large-scale medical emergencies can take many forms and can cause widespread illness and death. such emergencies could materially and adversely affect the u.s. economy in general and the health care industry specifically. for example, in the event of a natural disaster, bioterrorism attack, pandemic or other extreme events, we could face, among other things, significant medical costs and increased use of health care services. any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity or availability of our data or to strategically implement new or upgrade or consolidate existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially adversely affected. our ability to adequately price our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to accurately report our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. as a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, and changing customer patterns. if the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. there can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. failure to consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, certain of our businesses sell and install hardware and software products, and these products may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. connectivity among competing technologies is becoming increasingly important in the health care industry. a failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. 29 table of contents if we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our business could be adversely affected. we rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. these legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. in addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. our ability to obtain funds from some of our subsidiaries is restricted and if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our operations or financial position may be adversely affected. because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from some of our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. many of these subsidiaries are regulated by states departments of insurance. we are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. the levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium revenues generated. a significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from us. in most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. in addition, we normally notify the state departments of insurance prior to making payments that do not require approval. an inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies could impact the scale to which we could reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, and could adversely affect our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment cycle, repurchase of shares of our common stock and repay our debt. if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our operations or financial position may be adversely affected. any failure by us to manage and complete acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully could harm our results of operations, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. for acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations. if we are unable to successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our results of operations could be adversely affected. downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. claims paying ability, financial strength, and credit ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current credit ratings will be maintained in the 30 table of contents future. our ratings reflect each credit rating agency opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risks are exposures to (a) changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and interest expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate financial investments and debt and (b) changes in equity prices that impact the value of our equity investments. as of december 31, 2010, $9.1 billion of our financial investments was classified as cash and cash equivalents on which interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may materially impact our investment income. also, $7.1 billion of our debt as of december 31, 2010 was at interest rates that vary with market rates, either directly or through the use of related interest rate swap contracts. the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate financial investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. as of december 31, 2010, $16.3 billion of our investments was fixed-rate debt securities and $4.0 billion of our debt was fixed-rate term debt. an increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. we manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed income market sectors and debt across maturities and interest rate indices, as well as endeavoring to match our floating rate assets and liabilities over time, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap contracts. as part of our risk management strategy, we enter into interest rate swap agreements with creditworthy financial institutions to manage the impact of market interest rates on interest expense. our swap agreements converted a portion of our interest expense from fixed to variable rates to better match the impact of changes in market rates on our variable rate cash equivalent investments. additional information on our derivative financial instruments is included in note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. 56 table of contents the following table summarizes the impact of hypothetical changes in market interest rates across the entire yield curve by 1% or 2% as of december 31, 2010 on our investment income and interest expense per annum, and the fair value of our financial investments and debt (in millions): increase (decrease) in market interest rate investment income per annum (a) interest expense per annum (a) fair value of financial investments fair value of debt 2% $ 182 $ 163 $ (1,177 ) $ (860 ) 1 91 82 (602 ) (471 ) (1) (10 ) (21 ) 613 560 (2) nm nm 1,227 1,240 nm = not meaningful (a) given the low absolute level of short-term market rates on our floating rate assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2010, the assumed hypothetical change in interest rates does not reflect the full 1% point reduction in interest income or interest expense as the rate cannot fall below zero. as of december 31, 2010, we had $516 million of investments in equity securities and venture capital funds, a portion of which were invested in various public and non-public companies concentrated in the areas of health care delivery and related information technologies. market conditions that affect the value of health care or technology stocks will likewise impact the value of our equity investments. 57 table of contents