risk factors risk factors and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview of oil and gas well drilling and servicing processes oil and gas wells are usually drilled by drilling contractors using a drilling rig. a bit is attached to the end of a drill stem, which is assembled by the drilling rig and its crew from 30-foot joints of drill pipe and specialized drilling components known as downhole tools. using the conventional rotary drilling method, the drill stem is turned from the rotary table of the drilling rig by torque applied to the kelly, which is screwed into the top of the drill stem. increasingly, drilling is performed using a drilling motor, which is attached to the bottom of the drill stem and provides rotational force directly to the bit, rather than such force being supplied by the rotary table. the use of a drilling motor permits the drilling contractor to drill directionally, including horizontally. the company sells and rents drilling motors, drill bits, downhole tools and drill pipe through its petroleum services supplies segment. during drilling, heavy drilling fluids or drilling muds are pumped down the drill stem and forced out through jets in the bit. the drilling mud returns to the surface through the space between the borehole wall and the drill stem, carrying with it the drill cuttings drilled out by the bit. the drill cuttings are removed from the mud by a solids control system (which can include shakers, centrifuges and other specialized equipment) and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. the solids control system permits the mud, which is often comprised of expensive chemicals, to be continuously reused and re-circulated back into the hole. through its rig technology segment, the company sells the large mud pumps that are used to pump drilling mud through the drill stem. through its petroleum services supplies business, the company sells transfer pumps and mud pump consumables; sells and rents solids control equipment; and provides solids control, waste management and drilling fluids services. many operators internally coat the drill stem to improve its hydraulic efficiency and protect it from corrosive fluids sometimes encountered during drilling, and inspect and assess the integrity of the drill pipe from time to time. the company provides drill pipe inspection and coating services, and applies hardbanding material to drill pipe to improve its wear characteristics. these services are provided through the company petroleum services supplies segment. additionally, the company petroleum services supplies segment manufactures and sells drill pipe. as the hole depth increases, the kelly must be removed frequently so that additional 30-foot joints of drill pipe can be added to the drill stem. when the bit becomes dull or the equipment at the bottom of the drill stem including the drilling motors otherwise requires servicing, the entire drill stem is pulled out of the hole and disassembled by disconnecting the joints of drill pipe. these are set aside or racked, the old bit is replaced or service is performed, and the drill stem is reassembled and lowered back into the hole (a process called tripping ). during drilling and tripping operations, joints of drill pipe must be screwed together and tightened ( made up ), and loosened and unscrewed ( spun out ). the company rig technology business provides drilling equipment to manipulate and maneuver the drill pipe in this manner. when the hole has reached certain depths, all of the drill pipe is pulled out of the hole and larger diameter pipe known as casing is lowered into the hole and permanently cemented in place in order to protect against collapse and contamination of the hole. the casing is typically inspected before it is lowered into the hole, a service the company petroleum services supplies business provides. the company rig technology segment manufactures pressure pumping equipment that is used to cement the casing in place. the raising and lowering of the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and the lowering of casing into the wellbore, is accomplished with the rig hoisting system. a conventional hoisting system is a block and tackle mechanism that works within the drilling rig derrick. the lifting of this mechanism is performed via a series of pulleys that are attached to the drawworks at the base of the derrick. the company rig technology segment sells and installs drawworks and pipe hoisting systems. during the course of normal drilling operations, the drill stem passes through different geological formations, which exhibit varying pressure characteristics. if this pressure is not contained, oil, gas and/or water would flow out of these formations to the surface. 4 table of contents the two means of containing these pressures are (i) primarily the circulation of drilling muds while drilling and (ii) secondarily the use of blowout preventers should the mud prove inadequate and in an emergency situation. the company rig technology group sells and services blowout preventers ( bops ). drilling muds are carefully designed to exhibit certain qualities that optimize the drilling process. in addition to containing formation pressure, they must (i) provide power to the drilling motor, (ii) carry drilled solids to the surface, (iii) protect the drilled formations from being damaged, and (iv) cool the drill bit. achieving these objectives often requires a formulation specific to a given well and can involve the use of expensive chemicals as well as natural materials such as certain types of clay. the fluid itself is often oil or more expensive synthetic mud. given this expense, it is highly desirable to reuse as much of the drilling mud as possible. solids control equipment such as shale shakers, centrifuges, cuttings dryers, and mud cleaners help accomplish this objective. the company petroleum services supplies group rents, sells, operates and services this equipment. drilling muds are formulated based on expected drilling conditions. however, as the hole is drilled, the drill stem may encounter a high pressure zone where the mud density is inadequate to maintain sufficient pressure. should efforts to weight up the mud in order to contain such a pressure kick fail, a blowout could result, whereby reservoir fluids would flow uncontrolled into the well. to prevent blowouts to the surface of the well, a series of high-pressure valves known as blowout preventers are positioned at the top of the well and, when activated, form tight seals that prevent the escape of fluids. when closed, conventional bops prevent normal rig operations. therefore, the bops are activated only if drilling mud and normal well control procedures cannot safely contain the pressure. bops have been designed to contain pressures of up to 20,000 psi. the operations of the rig and the condition of the drilling mud are closely monitored by various sensors, which measure operating parameters such as the weight on the rig hook, the incidence of pressure kicks, the operation of the drilling mud pumps, etc. through its rig technology segment, the company sells and rents drilling rig instrumentation packages that perform these monitoring functions. during the drilling and completion of a well, there exists an ongoing need for various consumables and spare parts. while most of these items are small, in the aggregate they represent an important element of the process. since it is impractical for each drilling location to have a full supply of these items, drilling contractors and well service companies tend to rely on third parties to stock and deliver these items. the company provides this capability through its distribution services segment, which stocks and sells spares and consumables made by third parties, as well as spares and consumables made by the company. after the well has reached its total depth and the final section of casing has been set, the drilling rig is moved off of the well and the well is prepared to begin producing oil or gas in a process known as well completion. well completion usually involves installing production tubing concentrically in the casing. due to the corrosive nature of many produced fluids, production tubing is often inspected and coated, services offered by the company petroleum services supplies business. sometimes operators choose to use corrosion resistant composite materials (which the company offers through its petroleum services supplies business), or corrosion-resistant alloys, or operators sometimes pump fluids into wells to inhibit corrosion. from time to time, a producing well may undergo workover procedures to extend its life and increase its production rate. workover rigs are used to disassemble the wellhead, tubing and other completion components of an existing well in order to stimulate or remediate the well. workover rigs are similar to drilling rigs in their capabilities to handle tubing, but are usually smaller and somewhat less sophisticated. the company offers a comprehensive range of workover rigs through its rig technology segment. tubing and sucker rods removed from a well during a well remediation operation are often inspected to determine their suitability to be reused in the well, which is a service the company petroleum services supplies business provides. frequently coiled tubing units or wireline units are used to accomplish certain well remediation operations or well completions. coiled tubing is a recent advancement in petroleum technology consisting of a continuous length of reeled steel tubing which can be injected concentrically into the production tubing all the way to the bottom of most wells. it permits many operations to be performed without disassembling the production tubing, and without curtailing the production of the well. wireline winch units are devices that utilize single-strand or multi-strand wires to perform well remediation operations, such as lowering tools and transmitting data to the surface. through the rig technology segment, the company sells and rents various types of coiled tubing equipment, and wireline equipment and tools. the company also manufactures and sells coiled tubing pipe through its petroleum services supplies segment. 5 table of contents rig technology the company has a long tradition of pioneering innovations in drilling and well servicing equipment which improve the efficiency, safety, and cost of drilling and well servicing operations. the rig technology segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of top drives, automated pipe handling systems, motion compensation systems, rig controls, bops, handling tools, drawworks, risers, rotary tables, mud pumps, cranes, drilling motors and other drilling equipment for both the onshore and offshore markets. the rig technology segment also manufactures entire rig packages, both drilling and workover, in addition to well servicing equipment such as coiled tubing units, pressure pumping equipment, and wireline winches. the rig technology group sells directly to drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. the rig technology segment rents and sells proprietary drilling rig instrumentation packages and control systems which monitor various processes throughout the drilling operation, under the name md /totco ( instrumentation ). demand for its products, several of which are described below, is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. land rig packages . nov designs, manufactures, assembles, upgrades, and supplies equipment sets to a variety of land drilling rigs, including those specifically designed to operate in harsh environments such as the arctic circle and the desert. our key land rig product names include the drake rig, ideal rig and rapid rig . nov recent rig packages are designed to be safer and fast moving, to utilize ac technology, and to reduce manpower required to operate a rig. top drives . the top drive drilling system ( tds ), originally introduced by nov in 1982, significantly alters the traditional drilling process. the tds rotates the drill stem from its top, rather than by the rotary table, with a large electric motor affixed to rails installed in the derrick that traverses the length of the derrick to the rig floor. therefore, the tds eliminates the use of the conventional rotary table for drilling. components of the tds also are used to connect additional joints of drill pipe to the drill stem during drilling operations, enabling drilling with three joints of drill pipe compared to traditionally drilling with one joint of drill pipe. additionally, the tds facilitates horizontal and extended reach drilling. drilling motors. nov has helped lead the application of ac motor technology in the oilfield industry. we are now transitioning from buying motors from third parties to building them in our own facilities and further developing motor technology, including the introduction of permanent magnet motor technology to the industry. these permanent magnet motors are being used in top drives, cranes, mud pumps, winches, and drawworks. rotary equipment . the alternative to using a tds to rotate the drill stem is to use a rotary table, which rotates the pipe at the floor of the rig. the rig technology group produces rotary tables as well as kelly bushings and master bushings for most sizes of kellys and makes of rotary tables. in 1998, nov introduced the rotary support table for use on rigs with a tds. the rotary support table is used in concert with the tds to completely eliminate the need for the larger conventional rotary table. pipe handling systems . pipe racking systems are used to handle drill pipe, casing and tubing on a drilling rig. vertical pipe racking systems move drill pipe and casing between the well and a storage ( racking ) area on the rig floor. horizontal racking systems are used to handle tubulars while stored horizontally (for example, on the pipe deck of an offshore rig) and transport tubulars up to the rig floor and into a vertical position for use in the drilling process. vertical pipe racking systems are used predominantly on offshore rigs and are found on almost all floating rigs. mechanical vertical pipe racking systems greatly reduce the manual effort involved in pipe handling. pipe racking systems, introduced by nov in 1985, provide a fully automated mechanism for handling and racking drill pipe during drilling and tripping operations, spinning and torquing drill pipe, and automatic hoisting and racking of disconnected joints of drill pipe. these functions can be integrated via computer controlled sequencing, and operated by a driller in an environmentally secure cabin. an important element of this system is the iron roughneck, which was originally introduced by nov in 1976 and is an automated device that makes pipe connections on the rig floor and requires less direct involvement of rig floor personnel in potentially dangerous operations. the automated roughneck is an automated microprocessor-controlled version of the iron roughneck. horizontal pipe transfer systems were introduced by nov in 1993. they include the pipe deck machine ( pdm ), which is used to manipulate and move tubulars while stored in a horizontal position; the pipe transfer conveyor ( ptc ), which transports sections of pipe to the rig floor; and a pickup laydown system ( pls ), which raises the pipe to a vertical position for transfer to a vertical racking system. these components may be employed separately, or incorporated together to form a complete horizontal racking system, known as the pipe transfer system ( pts ). 6 table of contents pipe handling tools . the company pipe handling tools are designed to enhance the safety, efficiency and reliability of pipe handling operations. many of these tools have provided innovative methods of performing the designated task through mechanization of functions previously performed manually. the rig technology group manufactures various tools used to grip, tochold, raise, and lower pipe, and in the making up and breaking out of drill pipe, workstrings, casing and production tubulars including spinning wrenches, manual tongs, torque wrenches and kelly spinners. mud pumps. mud pumps are high pressure pumps located on the rig that force drilling mud down the drill pipe, through the drill bit, and up the space between the drill pipe and the drilled formation (the annulus ) back to the surface. these pumps, which generate pressures of up to 7,500 psi, must therefore be capable of displacing drilling fluids several thousand feet down and back up the well bore. the conventional mud pump design, known as the triplex pump, uses three reciprocating pistons oriented horizontally. recently, nov has introduced the hex pump, which uses six pumping cylinders, versus the three used in the triplex pump. along with other design features, the greater number of cylinders reduces pulsations (or surges) and increases the output available from a given footprint. reduced pulsation is desirable where downhole measurement equipment is being used during the drilling process, as is often the case in directional drilling. hoisting systems . hoisting systems are used to raise or lower the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and to lower casing into the wellbore. the drawworks is the heart of the hoisting system. it is a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line, which is in turn connected to the drill stem at the top of the derrick. the drawworks also plays an important role in keeping the weight on the drill bit at a desired level. this task is particularly challenging on offshore drilling rigs, which are subject to wave motion. to address this, nov has introduced the active heave drilling ( ahd ) drawworks. the ahd drawworks uses computer-controlled motors to compensate for the motion experienced in offshore drilling operations. cranes. nov provides a comprehensive range of crane solutions, with purpose-built products for all segments of the oil and gas industry as well as many other markets. the company encompasses a broad collection of brand names with international recognition, and includes a large staff of engineers specializing in the design of cranes and related equipment. the product range extends from small cargo-handling cranes to the world largest marine cranes. in all, the company provides over twenty crane product lines that include standard model configurations as well as custom-engineered and specialty cranes. motion compensation systems . traditionally, motion compensation equipment is located on top of the drilling rig and serves to stabilize the bit on the bottom of the hole, increasing drilling effectiveness of floating offshore rigs by compensating for wave and wind action. the ahd drawworks, discussed above, was introduced to eliminate weight and improve safety, removing the compensator from the top of the rig and integrating it into the drawworks system. in addition to the ahd drawworks, nov has introduced an active heave compensation ( ahc ) system that goes beyond the capabilities of the ahd drawworks to handle the most severe weather. additionally, nov tensioning systems provide continuous axial tension to the marine riser pipe (larger diameter pipe which connects floating drilling rigs to the well on the ocean floor) and guide lines on floating drilling rigs, tension leg platforms and jack-up drilling rigs. blowout preventers . bops are devices used to seal the space ( annulus ) between the drill pipe and the borehole to prevent blowouts (uncontrolled flows of formation fluids and gases to the surface). the rig technology group manufactures a wide array of bops used in various situations. ram and annular bops are back-up devices that are activated only if other techniques for controlling pressure in the wellbore are inadequate. when closed, these devices prevent normal rig operations. ram bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing rams (thick heavy blocks of steel) against each other across the wellbore. specially designed packers seal around specific sizes of pipe in the wellbore, shear pipe in the wellbore or close off an open hole. annular bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing a rubber packing unit around the drill pipe or kelly or by sealing against itself if nothing is in the hole. nov pressure control while drilling ( pcwd ) bop, introduced in 1995, allows operators to drill at pressures up to 2,000 psi without interrupting normal operations, and can act as a normal spherical bop at pressures up to 5,000 psi. in 1998, nov introduced the nxt ram type bop which eliminates door bolts, providing significant weight, rig-time, and space savings. its unique features make subsea operation more efficient through faster ram configuration changes without tripping the bop stack. in 2004, nov introduced the lxt, which features many of the design elements of the nxt, but is targeted at the land market. in 2005, the company began commercializing technology related to a continuous circulation device. this device enables drilling contractors to make and break drill pipe connections without stopping the circulation of drilling fluids, which helps increase drilling efficiency. derricks and substructures. drilling activities are carried out from a drilling rig. a drilling rig consists of one or two derricks; the substructure that supports the derrick(s); and the rig package, which consists of the various pieces of equipment discussed above. the rig technology segment designs, fabricates and services derricks used in both onshore and offshore applications, and substructures used in onshore applications. the rig technology group also works with shipyards in the fabrication of substructures for offshore drilling rigs. 7 table of contents instrumentation . the company instrumentation business provides drilling rig operators real time measurement and monitoring of critical parameters required to improve rig safety and efficiency. in 1999, the company introduced its rigsense wellsite information system, which combines leading hardware and software technologies into an integrated drilling rig package. access of drilling data is provided to offsite locations, enabling company personnel to monitor drilling operations from an office environment, through a secure link. systems are both sold and rented, and are comprised of hazardous area sensors placed throughout the rig to measure critical drilling parameters; all networked back to a central command station for review, recording and interpretation. the company offers unique business integration services to directly integrate information into business applications that improves accuracy and assists drilling contractors in managing their drilling business. reports on drilling activities and processes are now provided from the rig site as a part of the drillsuite business solution to allow contractors to streamline administration by eliminating manual entry of data, promotes accurate payroll processing and invoicing, and includes asset tracking and preventive maintenance management through its rigms solution. the real time information provided also allows the company to advance the drilling process using advanced drilling algorithms and electronic controls such as our wildcat auto drilling system for better execution of the well plan, enhanced rates of penetration, reduced program costs, and improved wellbore quality. complementing the company surface solutions is a portfolio of down-hole instrumentation ( dhi ) products for both straight-hole and directional markets. key advancements in this area include the introduction of the company time saving etotco electronic drift recorder, which serves as an electronic equivalent to the traditional mechanical drift tool that the company has offered since 1929. coiled tubing equipment . coiled tubing consists of flexible steel tubing manufactured in a continuous string and spooled on a reel. it can extend several thousand feet in length and is run in and out of the wellbore at a high rate of speed by a hydraulically operated coiled tubing unit. a coiled tubing unit is typically mounted on a truck, semi-trailer or skid (steel frames on which portable tocequipment is mounted to facilitate handling with cranes for offshore use) and consists of a hydraulically operated tubing reel or drum, an injector head which pushes or pulls the tubing in or out of the wellbore, and various power and control systems. coiled tubing is typically used with sophisticated pressure control equipment which permits the operator to perform workover operations on a live well. the rig technology group manufactures and sells both coiled tubing units and the ancillary pressure control equipment used in these operations. through its acquisition of rolligon in late 2006, the company enhanced its portfolio by adding additional pressure pumping and coiled tubing equipment products. currently, most coiled tubing units are used in well remediation and completion applications. the company believes that advances in the manufacturing process of coiled tubing, tubing fatigue protection and the capability to manufacture larger diameter and increased wall thickness coiled tubing strings have resulted in increased uses and applications for coiled tubing products. for example, some well operators are now using coiled tubing in drilling applications such as slim hole re-entries of existing wells. nov engineered and manufactured the first coiled tubing units built specifically for coiled tubing drilling in 1996. generally, the rig technology group supplies customers with the equipment and components necessary to use coiled tubing, which the customers typically purchase separately. the group coiled tubing product line consists of coiled tubing units, coiled tubing pressure control equipment, pressure pumping equipment, snubbing units (which are units that force tubulars into a well when pressure is contained within the wellbore), nitrogen pumping equipment and cementing, stimulation, fracturing and blending equipment. wireline equipment . nov wireline products include wireline drum units, which consist of a spool or drum of wireline cable, mounted in a mobile vehicle or skid, which works in conjunction with a source of power (an engine mounted in the vehicle or within a separate power pack skid). the wireline drum unit is used to spool wireline cable into or out of a well, in order to perform surveys inside the well, sample fluids from the bottom of the well, retrieve or replace components from inside the well, or to perform other well remediation or survey operations. the wireline used may be slick line , which is conventional single-strand steel cable used to convey tools in or out of the well, or electric line , which contains an imbedded single-conductor or multi-conductor electrical line which permits communication between the surface and electronic instruments attached to the end of the wireline at the bottom of the well. wireline units are usually used in conjunction with a variety of other pressure control equipment which permit safe access into wells while they are flowing and under pressure at the surface. the company engineers and manufactures a broad range of pressure control equipment for wireline operations, including wireline blowout preventers, strippers, packers, lubricators and grease injection units. additionally, the company makes wireline rigging equipment such as mast trucks. facilities. the company conducts rig technology manufacturing operations at major facilities in houston, galena park, sugar land, conroe, cedar park, anderson, fort worth and pampa, texas; duncan, oklahoma; orange, california; edmonton, canada; aberdeen, scotland; kristiansand, and stavanger, norway; etten-leur and groot-ammers, the netherlands; carquefou, france; singapore; lanzhou and shanghai, china; jebel ali, dubai; and ulsan, south korea. for a more detailed listing of significant facilities see item 2. properties . the rig technology group maintains sales and service offices in most major oilfield markets, either directly or through agents. 8 table of contents customers and competition. the rig technology segment sells directly to drilling contractors, other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumping companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. the products of the rig technology group are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or improved availability and delivery. the group primary competitors are access oil tools; aker solutions as; american block; bomco; canrig (a division of nabors industries); cavins oil tools; cameron; dencon oil tools; forum oilfield technologies; general electric; hitec drilling products; hong hua; huisman; idm; lti (a division of rowan companies); m i electric; tesco corporation; wirth m b gmbh; stewart stevenson, inc.; crown energy technologies; huntings, ltd.; vanoil; parveen industries; and weatherford international, inc. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting its rig technology business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of products, spare parts, and consumables, breadth of product line and price. petroleum services supplies the company provides a broad range of support equipment, spare parts, consumables and services through the petroleum services supplies segment. the petroleum services supplies group sells directly and provides a variety of tubular services, composite tubing, and coiled tubing to oil and gas producers, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, and tubular processors, manufacturers and distributors. these include inspection and reclamation services for drill pipe, casing, production tubing, sucker rods and line pipe at drilling and workover rig locations, at yards owned by its customers, at steel mills and processing facilities that manufacture tubular goods, and at facilities which it owns. the group also provides internal coating of tubular goods at several coating plants worldwide and through licensees in certain locations. additionally, the company designs, manufactures and sells high pressure fiberglass and composite tubulars for use in corrosive applications and coiled tubing for use in well servicing applications and connections for large diameter conductor pipe. the company customers rely on tubular inspection services to avoid failure of tubing, casing, flowlines, pipelines and drill pipe. such tubular failures are expensive and in some cases catastrophic. the company customers rely on internal coatings of tubular goods to prolong the useful lives of tubulars and to increase the volumetric throughput of in-service tubular goods. the company customers sometimes use fiberglass or composite tubulars in lieu of conventional steel tubulars, due to the corrosion-resistant properties of fiberglass and other composite materials. tubular inspection and coating services are used most frequently in operations in high-temperature, deep, corrosive oil and gas environments. in selecting a provider of tubular inspection and tubular coating services, oil and gas operators consider such factors as reputation, experience, technology of products offered, reliability and price. the company petroleum services supplies group also provides products and services that are used in the course of drilling oil and gas wells. the downhole tools business sells and rents bits, drilling motors and specialized downhole tools that are incorporated into the drill stem during drilling operations ( downhole tools ), and are also used during fishing, well intervention, re-entry, and well completion operations. the wellsite services business provides products and services such as drilling fluids, highly-engineered solids control equipment, waste handling and treatment, completion fluids, power generation equipment, and other ancillary well site equipment and services. wellsite services is also engaged in barium sulfate ( barite ) mining operations in the state of nevada. barite is an inert powder material used as the primary weighting agent in drilling fluids. additionally, efficient separation of drill cuttings enables the re-use of often costly drilling fluids. the pumps expendables business provides centrifugal, reciprocating, and progressing cavity pumps and pump expendables ( pumps expendables ) into the global oil and gas and industrial markets. solids control and waste management . the company is engaged in the provision of highly-engineered equipment, products and services which separate and manage drill cuttings produced by the drilling process ( solids control ). drill cuttings are usually contaminated with petroleum or drilling fluids, and must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. fluids services. the company acquired the spirit group of companies in may 2009 ( spirit ) and ambar in january 2010. both are engaged in the provision of drilling fluids, completion fluids and other related services. this division is also engaged in barite mining operations. drilling fluids are designed and used to maintain well bore stability while drilling, control downhole pressure, drill bit lubrication, and as a drill cuttings displacement medium. completion fluids are used to clean the well bore and stimulate production. portable power. the acquisition of welch sales and service, inc. in 2008 placed wellsite services in the power generation and temperature control business. the portable power division provides rental equipment for use in the upstream oil and gas industry, refinery and petrochemical, construction, events, disaster relief and other industries. 9 table of contents tubular coating . the company develops, manufactures and applies its proprietary tubular coatings, known as tube-kote coatings, to new and used tubulars. tubular coatings help prevent corrosion of tubulars by providing a tough plastic shield to isolate steel from corrosive oilfield fluids such as co 2 , h 2 and brine. delaying or preventing corrosion extends the life of existing tubulars, reduces the frequency of well remediation and reduces expensive interruptions in production. in addition, coatings are designed to increase the fluid flow rate through tubulars by decreasing or eliminating paraffin and scale build-up, which can reduce or block oil flow in producing wells. the smooth inner surfaces of coated tubulars often increase the fluid through-put on certain high-rate oil and gas wells by reducing friction and turbulence. the company reputation for supplying quality internal coatings is an important factor in its business, since the failure of coatings can lead to expensive production delays and premature tubular failure. in 2005, nov created a 60%-owned joint venture in china with the huabei petroleum administration bureau, which coats chinese produced drill pipe using nov proprietary coatings. in 2007, the joint venture opened a second coating plant in jiangyin city, china. in addition to our tk coatings, we also have complementary corrosion control products and services including tk liners, tubowrap , and kc-ipc connections. tk liners are fiberglass-reinforced tubes which are inserted into steel line pipe. this safeguards the pipe against corrosion and extends the life of the pipeline. in conjunction with the thru-kote connection system customers can weld a sleeve for a continuous fiberglass lined pipeline. tubo-wrap is a high performance external coating that protects the pipe during installation and from corrosion once the pipeline is in place. kc-ipc connections use a modified american petroleum institute ( api ) coupling to create a gas-tight seal that prevents corrosion and turbulence in the critical connections of tubulars while protecting the internal plastic coating at the highly loaded contact points. tubular inspection. newly manufactured pipe sometimes contains serious defects that are not detected at the mill. in addition, pipe can be damaged in transit and during handling prior to use at the well site. as a result, exploration and production companies often have new tubulars inspected before they are placed in service to reduce the risk of tubular failures during drilling, completion, or production of oil and gas wells. used tubulars are inspected by the company to detect service-induced flaws after the tubulars are removed from operation. used drill pipe and used tubing inspection programs allow operators to replace defective lengths, thereby prolonging the life of the remaining pipe and saving the customer the cost of unnecessary tubular replacements and expenses related to tubular failures. tubular inspection services employ all major non-destructive inspection techniques, including electromagnetic, ultrasonic, magnetic flux leakage and gamma ray. these inspection services are provided both by mobile units which work at the wellhead as used tubing is removed from a well, and at fixed site tubular inspection locations. the group provides an ultrasonic inspection service for detecting potential fatigue cracks in the end area of used drill pipe, the portion of the pipe that traditionally has been the most difficult to inspect. tubular inspection facilities also offer a wide range of related services, such as api thread inspection, ring and plug gauging, and a complete line of reclamation services necessary to return tubulars to useful service, including tubular cleaning and straightening, hydrostatic testing and re-threading. in addition, the company applies hardbanding material to drill pipe, to enhance its wear characteristics and reduce downhole casing wear as a result of the drilling process. in 2002, the company introduced its proprietary line of hardbanding material, tcs 8000 . the group also cleans, straightens, inspects and coats sucker rods at 11 facilities throughout the western hemisphere. additionally, new sucker rods are inspected before they are placed into service, to avoid premature failure, which can cause the oil well operator to have to pull and replace the sucker rod. machining services. in 2005, we acquired turner oilfield services and expanded our product offering into thread repair, tool joint rebuilding and sub manufacturing. since then we have made strategic acquisitions of hendershot and mid-south and have expanded our machining services internally to develop a one-stop-shop concept for our drill pipe customers. thread repair services include rotary shouldered and premium connections. we are licensed to perform thread repair services for api and proprietary connections. tool joint rebuilding is a unique process to restore worn drill pipe tool joints, drill collars and heavy weight drill pipe to the original specifications to extend the service life of those assets. we manufacture downhole tools and are api licensed for this process in several locations. in november 2009, we acquired south seas inspection (s) pte. ltd., ( ssi ) and certain assets of its brazilian affiliate. ssi provides a wide array of oilfield services including rig and derrick construction, derrick inspection and maintenance, drops surveys and load testing at the rig through the use of rope access technicians. this acquisition adds multiple new services and allows us to grow this business by leveraging existing relationships and infrastructure. these operations are based out of singapore with branch offices in baku, azerbaijan and aktau, kazkhstan as well as a representative office in vietnam. the highly trained workforce is completely mobile and provides these services worldwide. mill systems and sales. the company engineers and fabricates inspection equipment for steel mills, which it sells and rents. the equipment is used for quality control purposes to detect defects in the pipe during the high-speed manufacturing process. each piece of mill inspection equipment is designed to customer specifications and is installed and serviced by the company. 10 table of contents drill pipe products. the company manufactures and sells a variety of drill stem products used for the drilling of oil and gas wells. the principal products sold by this segment are: (i) drill pipe, (ii) drill collars and heavyweight drill pipe and (iii) drill stem accessories including tool joints. drill pipe is the principal tool, other than the rig, required for the drilling of an oil or gas well. its primary purpose is to connect the above-surface drilling rig to the drill bit. a drilling rig will typically have an inventory of 10,000 to 30,000 feet of drill pipe depending on the size and service requirements of the rig. joints of drill pipe are connected to each other with a welded-on tool joint to form what is commonly referred to as the drill string or drill stem. when a drilling rig is operating, motors mounted on the rig rotate the drill pipe and drill bit. in addition to connecting the drilling rig to the drill bit, drill pipe provides a mechanism to steer the drill bit and serves as a conduit for drilling fluids and cuttings. drill pipe is a capital good that can be used for the drilling of multiple wells. once a well is completed, the drill pipe may be used again and again to drill other wells until the drill pipe becomes damaged or wears out. in recent years, the depth and complexity of the wells our customers drill, as well as the specifications and requirements of the drill pipe they purchase, have substantially increased. a majority of the drill pipe we sell is required to meet specifications exceeding minimum api standards. we offer a broad line of premium drilling products designed for the offshore, international and domestic drilling markets. our premium drilling products include our proprietary lines of xt and turbotorque tm connections and large diameter drill pipe that delivers hydraulic performance superior to standard sizes. drill collars are used in the drilling process to place weight on the drill bit for better control and penetration. drill collars are located directly above the drill bit and are manufactured from a solid steel bar to provide necessary weight. heavyweight drill pipe is a thick-walled seamless tubular product that is less rigid than a drill collar. heavyweight drill pipe provides a gradual transition between the heavier drill collar and the lighter drill pipe. we also provide subs, pup joints (short and odd-sized tubular products) and other drill stem accessories. these products all perform special functions within the drill string as part of the drilling process. nov intelliserv. nov intelliserv is a joint venture between the company and schlumberger, ltd. in which the company holds a 55% interest and maintains operational control. nov intelliserv provides wellbore data transmission services that enable high-speed communication up and down the drill string throughout drilling and completion operations that are undertaken during the construction of oil and gas wells. nov intelliserv core product, the intelliserv broadband network , was commercialized in february 2006 and incorporates various proprietary mechanical and electrical components into our premium drilling tubulars to enable data transmission rates that are currently up to 20,000 times faster than mud pulse, the current industry standard. the intelliserv broadband network also permits virtually unlimited real-time actuation of drilling tools and sensors at the bottom of the drill string, a process that conventionally requires the time consuming return of tools to the surface. nov intelliserv offers its products and services on a rental basis to oil and gas operators. voest-alpine tubulars ( vat ) . vat is a joint venture between the company and the austrian based voestalpine group. the company has a 50.01% investment in the joint venture which is located in kindberg, austria. vat owns a tubular mill with an annual capacity of approximately 380,000 metric tons and is the primary supplier of green tubes for our u.s. based production. in addition to producing green tubes, vat produces seamless tubular products for the octg market and non-octg products used in the automotive, petrochemical, construction, mining, tunneling and transportation industries. fiberglass composite tubulars. when compared to conventional carbon steel and even corrosion-resistant alloys, resin-impregnated fiberglass and other modern plastic composites often exhibit superior resistance to corrosion. some producers manage the corrosive fluids sometimes found in oil and gas fields by utilizing composite or fiberglass tubing, casing and line pipe in the operations of their fields. in 1997, the company acquired fiber glass systems, a leading provider of high pressure fiberglass tubulars used in oilfield applications, to further serve the tubular corrosion prevention needs of its customers. fiber glass systems has manufactured fiberglass pipe since 1968 under the name star , and was the first manufacturer of high-pressure fiberglass pipe to be licensed by the api in 1992. through acquisitions and investments in technologies, the company has extended its fiberglass and composite tubing offering into industrial and marine applications, in addition to its oilfield market. coiled tubing. coiled tubing provides a number of significant functional advantages over the principal alternatives of conventional drill pipe and workover pipe. coiled tubing allows faster tripping, since the coiled tubing can be reeled quickly on and off a drum and in and out of a wellbore. in addition, the small size of the coiled tubing unit compared to an average workover rig or drilling rig reduces preparation time at the well site. coiled tubing permits a variety of workover and other operations to be performed without having to pull the existing production tubing from the well and allows ease of operation in horizontal or highly deviated wells. thus, operations using coiled tubing can be performed much more quickly and, in many instances, at a significantly lower cost. finally, use of coiled tubing generally allows continuous production of the well, eliminating the need to temporarily stop the flow of hydrocarbons. as a result, the economics of a workover are improved because the well can continue to produce hydrocarbons and thus produce revenues while the well treatments are occurring. continuous production also reduces the risk of formation damage which can 11 table of contents occur when the flow of fluids is stopped or isolated. under normal operating conditions, the coiled tubing string must be replaced every three to four months. nov designs, manufactures, and sells coiled tubing under the quality tubing brand name at its mill in houston, texas. nov downhole. the nov downhole business unit combines a wide array of drilling and intervention tool product lines with the drill bit, coring services, borehole enlargement and drilling dynamics/drilling optimization service lines previously consolidated within the reedhycalog business unit of grant prideco. the broad spectrum of bottom hole assembly ( bha ) components offered by nov downhole is unique within the industry and is the result of national oilwell varco strategic consolidation of several key acquisitions, including: nql energy services, inc., a leading manufacturer and provider of downhole drilling tools; gammaloy holdings, l.p., a manufacturer and provider of non-magnetic drill collars and other related products; and the reedhycalog, corion, and andergauge business units of grant prideco, a global leader in the design, manufacture and provision of drill bits, variable gauge stabilizers, hydraulically and mechanically actuated under-reamers, specialty coring services and downhole vibration mitigation services. nov downhole manufactures fixed cutter and roller cone drill bits and services its customer base through a technical sales and marketing network in virtually every significant oil and gas producing region of the world. it provides fixed-cutter bit technology under various brand names including trex , raptor , systemmatched and rotary steerable. one of its most significant fixed cutter drill bit innovations is the trex, raptor, and duraforce family of cutter technologies which significantly increase abrasion resistance (wear life) without sacrificing impact resistance (toughness). this technology provides a diamond surface that maintains a sharp, low-wear cutting edge that produces drilling results that exceed conventional standards for polycrystalline diamond ( pdc ) bit performance. the company produces roller-cone bits for a wide variety of oil and gas drilling applications. roller-cone bits consist of three rotating cones that have cutting teeth, which penetrate the formation through a crushing action as the cones rotate in conjunction with the rotation of the drill pipe. this cutting mechanism, while less efficient than fixed-cutter bits, is more versatile in harder formations, or where the geology is changing. we manufacture roller-cone bits with milled teeth and with tungsten carbide insert teeth, which have a longer life in harder formations. we also manufacture a unique patented line of bits using a powder-metal forging technology sold under the brand tuffcutter . we market our roller-cone products and technology globally under various brand names including rockforce , titan and tuffcutter . nov downhole designs, manufacturers and services a wide array of downhole motors used in straight hole, directional, slim hole, and coiled tubing drilling applications. these motors are sold or leased under the nov downhole brand name. the company also maintains a wide variety of motor power sections, including its proprietary powerplus and hemidril rotors and stators which it incorporates into its own motors as well as sells to third parties. downhole drilling motors utilize hydraulic horsepower from the drilling fluid pumped down the drill stem to develop torque at the bit. motors are capable of achieving higher rotary velocities than can generally be achieved using conventional surface rotary equipment. motors are often used in conjunction with high speed pdc bits to improve rates of penetration. the nov downhole group also manufactures and sells drilling jars and fishing tools, which are marketed under the griffith tm and bowen brand names. drilling jars are placed in the drill string, where they can be used to generate a sudden, jarring motion to free the drill string should it become stuck in the wellbore during the drilling process. this jarring motion is generated using hydraulic and/or mechanical force provided at the surface. in the event that a portion of the drill string becomes stuck and cannot be jarred loose, fishing tools are run into the wellbore on the end of the drill string to retrieve the portion that is stuck. through its coring services business line, nov downhole offers coring solutions that enable the extraction of actual rock samples from a drilled well bore and allow geologists to examine the formations at the surface. one of the coring services utilized is nov unique corion express system which allows the customer to drill and core a well without tripping pipe. corion express utilizes wireline retrievable drilling and coring elements which allow the system to transform from a drilling assembly to a coring assembly and also to wireline retrieve the geological core. this capability enables customers to save significant time and expense during the drilling and coring process. nov downhole offers a wide variety of industry leading technologies to enable customers to enlarge the diameter of a drilled hole below a restriction (typically a casing string) via its borehole enlargement business line. borehole enlargement services are typically utilized in deep water drilling where customers wish to maximize the size of each successive casing string in order to preserve a relatively large completion hole size through which to produce hydrocarbons from the reservoir. borehole enlargement is also employed where customers wish to reduce the fluid velocity and pressure within the well-bore annulus to reduce the risk of formation erosion or accidental fracture. nov borehole enlargement provides bi-centered drill bits, expandable reamers (marketed under the anderreamer brand name) and associated equipment along with well-site service technicians who deliver 24 hour support during hole enlargement operations. 12 table of contents nov downhole offers drilling optimization services via its advanced drilling solutions ( ads ) business line. ads services incorporate various downhole vibration measurement and mitigation tools along with dedicated, highly trained personnel who interpret such data and provide drilling parameter guidance intended to improve drilling efficiency and reduce drilling risk. pumps expendables . the company pumps expendables business designs, manufactures, and sells pumps that are used in oil and gas drilling operations, well service operations, production applications, as well as industrial applications. these pumps include reciprocating positive displacement and centrifugal pumps. high pressure mud pumps are sold within the rig technology segment. these pumps are sold as individual units and unitized packages with drivers, controls and piping. this group also manufactures fluid end expendables (liners, valves, pistons, and plungers), fluid end modules and a complete line of dies and inserts for pipe handling. the group offers popular industry brand names like wheatley, gaso, and omega reciprocating pumps, acquired in 2000; halco centrifugal pumps, acquired in 2002; petroleum expendable products ( pep ), acquired in 1997; and phoenix energy products, acquired in 1998. the group also manufactures a line of commodity and high end valves, chokes, and flow line equipment used in both production and drilling applications. additionally these products are used in the fabrication of choke and kill standpipe, cement, and production manifolds. the group manufactures its pump products in houston, odessa and marble falls, texas; tulsa and mcalester, oklahoma; scott, louisiana; newcastle, england; dehradun, india and buenos aires, argentina. xl systems. our xl system product line offers the customer an integrated package of large-bore tubular products and services for offshore wells. this product line includes our proprietary line of wedge thread marine connections on large-bore tubulars and related engineering and design services. we provide this product line for drive pipe, jet strings and conductor casing. we also offer weld-on connections and service personnel in connection with the installation of these products. in early 2007, we completed development of our new high-strength viper weld-on connector that we believe will permit us to penetrate traditional markets that do not require the enhanced performance of our proprietary wedge-thread design. customers and competition. customers for the petroleum services supplies tubular services include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield equipment and product distributors and manufacturers, oilfield service companies, steel mills, and other industrial companies. the company competitors include, among others, ameron international corp; edo corporation; shawcor ltd.; smith international, inc.; frank international; inc.; baker hughes incorporated; halliburton company; weatherford international ltd.; patterson tubular services; vallourec mannesmann; and precision tube (a division of tenaris). in addition, the group competes with a number of smaller regional competitors in tubular inspection. certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which this group operates have adopted policies or regulations that may give local nationals in these countries certain competitive advantages. within the company corrosion control products, certain substitutes such as non-metallic tubulars, inhibitors, corrosion resistant alloys, cathodic protection systems, and non-metallic liner systems also compete with the company products. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting this business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of products, spare parts, and consumables, breadth of product line and price. the primary customers for drilling services offered by the petroleum services supplies group include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil companies. competitors in drilling services include smith international ( swaco ); baker hughes incorporated; halliburton company; derrick manufacturing corp.; fluid systems; oil tools pte. ltd; peak energy services, ltd.; varel; united diamond; roper; robbins myers; southwest oilfield products; and a number of regional competitors. the petroleum services supplies group sells drilling services into highly competitive markets. management believes that on-site service is becoming an increasingly important competitive element in this market, and that the principal competitive factors affecting the business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, product availability and technology, breadth of product line and price. 13 table of contents distribution services the distribution services group is a market leader in the provision of supply chain management services to drilling contractors and exploration and production companies around the world. through its network of over 200 distribution service center locations worldwide, this group stocks and sells a large line of oilfield products including consumable maintenance, repair and operating supplies, valves, fittings, flanges and spare parts that are needed throughout the drilling, completion and production process. the supplies and equipment stocked by our distribution service centers are customized to meet a wide variety of customer demands. distribution supply chain solutions for customers that choose to outsource the functions of procurement, inventory warehouse management, logistics, business process, and performance metrics reporting generate a quarter of this group revenues. in this solution offering, they leverage the flexible infrastructure of their sap erp system to streamline the acquisition process from requisition to procurement to payment, by digitally managing approval routing workflow, and by providing robust reporting functionality. nov rigstore is a cutting-edge industry value offering by the distribution services group whereby they provide the installation, staffing and management of supply stores on offshore drilling rigs. with the nov rigstore business model, distribution services installs its own erp system onboard in order to access and leverage distribution global inventory, hundreds of support locations, and thousands of vendors across multiple product lines. this business model relieves the average offshore drilling rig balance sheet by providing improved accounting of these expense items, lower capital costs, extended payment on part of the driller until the item is actually issued from the onboard supply store, and removed risk of ownership from the customer. whether it is a smaller, new drilling contractor or larger, established drilling company the benefits of effective supply chain management and reduced total cost of ownership are substantial. distribution services also now provides unique one-stop-shop value propositions in the exploration and production market in key areas of artificial lift, measurement controls, valving actuation, and flow optimization. through focused effort, they have built expertise in providing applications engineering, systems parts integration, optimization solutions, and after-sales service support in the aforementioned areas. distribution services is rapidly diversifying by adding new artificial lift technologies, as well as measurement controls competencies to become the biggest global provider of equipment and services in the e p space. approximately 70% of the distribution services group sales in 2009 were in the united states and canada. the remainder comes from key international markets in latin america, the north sea, middle east, africa and the far east. the distribution services group has now expanded into oilfields in over 20 countries. approximately 23% of distribution services revenues are from the resale of goods manufactured by other segments within the company and the balance are sales of goods manufactured by third parties. the group works to strategically increase its revenue and enhance its alliances with customers by continuous expansion of product and service solutions and creation of differentiating value propositions. additionally the group leverages its extensive purchasing power to reduce the cost of the goods. the group is strategically expanding its sourcing network into low cost countries globally. customers and competition. the primary customers for distribution services include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil companies. competitors in distribution services include wilson supply (a division of smith international), ce franklin, mcjunkin red man, and a number of regional competitors. 14 table of contents 2009 acquisitions and other investments in 2009, the company made the following acquisitions and outside investments: acquisition form operating segment date of transaction asep group holding b.v. stock rig technology april 2009 ans (1001) ltd. ( anson ) stock petroleum services supplies april 2009 spirit drilling fluids ltd. asset petroleum services supplies may 2009 spirit minerals l.p. asset petroleum services supplies may 2009 rincon de los sauces inspection operation asset petroleum services supplies june 2009 western thunderhorse asset petroleum services supplies september 2009 south seas inspection stock petroleum services supplies november 2009 hochang machinery industries co., ltd. stock rig technology december 2009 stork msw stock petroleum services supplies december 2009 the company paid an aggregate purchase price of $573 million, net of cash acquired for acquisitions and outside investments in 2009. in september 2009, the company sold 45 percent of certain of its intelliserv operations and created the intelliserv joint venture ( intelliserv ). intelliserv provides drilling technology that enables downhole drilling conditions to be measured, evaluated and monitored. seasonal nature of the company business historically, the level of some of the company businesses has followed seasonal trends to some degree. in general the rig technology group has not experienced significant seasonal fluctuation although orders for new equipment may be modestly affected by holiday schedules. there can be no guarantee that seasonal effects will not influence future sales in this segment. in canada, the petroleum services supplies segment has typically realized high first quarter activity levels, as operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling and production areas. in past years, certain canadian businesses within petroleum services supplies and distribution services have declined during the second quarter due to warming weather conditions which resulted in thawing, softer ground, difficulty accessing drill sites, and road bans that curtailed drilling activity ( canadian breakup ). however, these businesses have typically rebounded in the third and fourth quarter. petroleum services supplies activity in both the u.s. and canada sometimes increases during the third quarter and then peaks in the fourth quarter as operators spend the remaining drilling and/or production capital budgets for that year. petroleum services supplies revenues in the rocky mountain region sometimes decline in the late fourth quarter or early first quarter due to harsh winter weather. the segment fiberglass and composite tubulars business in china has typically declined in the first quarter due to the impact of weather on manufacturing and installation operations, and due to business slowdowns associated with the chinese new year. the company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue. however, there can be no guarantee that spending by the company customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past or that spending by other customers will remain the same as in prior years. marketing distribution network substantially all of our rig technology capital equipment and spare parts sales, and a large portion of our smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through our direct sales force and distribution service centers. sales to foreign oil companies are often made with or through agent or representative arrangements. products within our petroleum service supplies segment are rented and sold worldwide through our own sales force and through commissioned representatives. distribution services sales are made directly through our network of distribution service centers. the rig technology segment customers include drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumpers, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. rig technology purchases can represent significant capital expenditures, and are often sold as part of a rig fabrication or major rig refurbishment package. sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the company bids jointly with other related product and services providers, such as rig fabrication yards and rig design firms. the petroleum services supplies group customers for tubular services include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, oilfield equipment and product distributors and manufacturers, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield service companies, pressure pumpers, pipeline operators, pipe mills, manufacturers and processors, and other industrial companies. certain tubular inspection and tubular coating products and services often are incorporated as a part of a tubular package sold by tubular supply stores to end users. the company primarily has direct operations in the international marketplace, but operates through agents in certain markets. 15 table of contents the petroleum services supplies group customers for drilling services are predominantly major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, providers of drilling fluids, and other oilfield service companies. this group operates sales and distribution facilities at strategic locations worldwide to service areas with high drilling activity. strategically located service and engineering facilities provide specialty repair and maintenance services to customers. sales of capital equipment are sometimes made through rig fabricators, and often are bid as part of a rig fabrication package or rig refurbishment package. sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the company bids jointly with other related service providers. distribution services sales are made through our network of distribution service centers. customers for our products and services include drilling and other service contractors, exploration and production companies, supply companies and nationally owned or controlled drilling and production companies. the company foreign operations, which include significant operations in canada, europe, the far east, the middle east, africa and latin america, are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including foreign currency exchange risks and uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the company operates have adopted policies (or are subject to governmental policies) giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of such policies, the company relies on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationship between the company and such government-owned petroleum companies. although the company has not experienced any material problems in foreign countries arising from nationalistic policies, political instability, economic instability or currency restrictions, there can be no assurance that such a problem will not arise in the future. as discussed in the executive summary, the venezuelan government devalued its currency in 2010. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding geographic revenue information. research and new product development and intellectual property the company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights. as of december 31, 2009, the company held a substantial number of united states patents and had several patent applications pending. expiration dates of such patents range from 2010 to 2027. as of this date, the company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to inventions covered by the united states patents. additionally, the company maintains a substantial number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets. although the company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. the company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenues from new products. 16 table of contents engineering and manufacturing the manufacturing processes for the company products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components and testing. most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel, and the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. primary manufacturing facilities for the rig technology segment are located in houston, galena park, sugar land, conroe, cedar park, anderson, fort worth and pampa, texas; duncan, oklahoma; orange, california; edmonton, canada; aberdeen, scotland; kristiansand, and stavanger, norway; etten-leur and groot-ammers, the netherlands; carquefou, france; singapore; lanzhou and shanghai, china; jebel ali, dubai; and ulsan, south korea. the company petroleum services supplies segment manufactures or assembles the equipment and products which it rents and sells to customers, and which it uses in providing services. downhole tools are manufactured at facilities in houston, texas; manchester, england; jebel ali, dubai; and singapore. drill bits are manufactured at facilities in conroe, texas; stonehouse, u.k; and jurong, singapore. drill stem technology development and drill pipe are manufactured at facilities in navasota, texas; veracruz, mexico; jurong, singapore; and baimi town, jiangyan and jiangsu, china facilities. solids control equipment and screens are manufactured at facilities in houston and conroe, texas; new iberia, louisiana; aberdeen, scotland; trinidad; shah alum and puncak alam, malaysia; and macae, brazil. pumps are manufactured at facilities in houston, odessa and marble falls, texas; mcalester and tulsa, oklahoma; manchester and newcastle, england; melbourne, australia; and buenos aires, argentina. the intelliserv group manufactures or assembles equipment in provo, utah. the group manufactures tubular inspection equipment and tools at its houston, texas facility for resale, and renovates and repairs equipment at its manufacturing facilities in houston, texas; celle, germany; singapore; and aberdeen, scotland. fiberglass and composite tubulars and fittings are manufactured at facilities in san antonio, texas; little rock, arkansas; tulsa, oklahoma; wichita, kansas; and harbin and suzhou, china facilities, while tubular coatings are manufactured in its houston, texas facility, or through restricted sale agreements with third party manufacturers. certain of the company manufacturing facilities and certain of the company products have various certifications, including, iso 9001, api, apex and asme. raw materials the company believes that materials and components used in its servicing and manufacturing operations and purchased for sales are generally available from multiple sources. the prices paid by the company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. the company experienced higher steel prices and greater difficulty securing necessary steel supplies in 2004 and 2005 than it experienced during the preceding several years. in 2006 and 2007, the price for mild steel and standard grades stabilized while specialty alloy prices continued to rise driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. however, toward the end of 2007, the company began to see price escalations in all grades of steel that continued into 2008. during 2008, steel prices stabilized and the company began to experience some declines in steel prices late in 2008 and throughout 2009. the company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to and adjusting prices on the products it sells. furthermore, nov continued to expand its supply base in 2006, 2007 and 2008 throughout the world to address our customers needs. the steel price declines that nov experienced in later 2008 continued through most of 2009. in the later part of 2009 the rate of decline slowed due to some offsetting pressure from increased costs of alloying agents. in 2010, nov expects flat to slight increases in steel pricing. higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw material the company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. backlog the company monitors its backlog of orders within its rig technology segment to guide its planning. backlog includes orders greater than $250,000 for most items and orders for wireline units in excess of $75,000, and which require more than three months to manufacture and deliver. backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. most require reimbursement to the company for costs incurred in such an event. there can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the company will earn a profit on backlog work. our backlog for equipment at december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $6.4 billion, $11.1 billion and $9.0 billion, respectively. employees at december 31, 2009, the company had a total of 36,802 employees, of which 4,379 were temporary employees. approximately 104 employees in the company fiberglass tubulars plant in little rock, arkansas, and 110 employees of the company downhole tools product line in houston and conroe, texas, are subject to collective bargaining agreements. additionally, certain of the company employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile . the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of production by non-opec countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas; level of production from known reserves; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity; national government political requirements; development of alternate energy sources; and environmental regulations. if there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the company will decline. volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products. oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1972. in general, oil prices approximated $18-$22 per barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have generally ranged between $25-$100 per barrel since 2000. in 2008, oil prices were extremely volatile oil prices rose to $147 per barrel in july 2008 only to fall into the $35-$45 per barrel range in december 2008. in 2009, oil prices continued to be volatile, rising from the $30 per barrel range to the $70 per barrel range during the year. spot gas prices generally ranged between $1.80-$2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999 then experienced severe spikes into the $10 range in 2001 and 2003. absent occasional spikes and dips due to imbalances in supply and demand, prices have generally ranged between $4.50-$12.00 per mmbtu during 2005-2008. in 2009, spot gas prices continued to be volatile, dropping into the $3 per mmbtu range during the year. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could reduce demand for our products. 18 table of contents worldwide financial and credit crisis could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. events in 2008 and 2009 constrained credit markets and sparked a serious global banking crisis. the slowdown in worldwide economic activity caused by the global recession reduced demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, many of our customers access the credit markets to finance their oil and natural gas drilling activity. if the recent crisis and recession reduce the availability of credit to our customers, they may reduce their drilling and production expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for our products and services. any such reduction in spending by our customers could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment. as of december 31, 2009, we had a backlog of approximately $6.4 billion of drilling equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by our rig technology group. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties: our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this drilling equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; and our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control. the company existing contracts for rig equipment generally carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and do not allow customers to cancel projects for convenience. however, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and earnings: price changes; new product and technology introductions; and improvements in availability and delivery. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. competition in our industry could lead to lower revenues and earnings. we have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy. we have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through acquisitions and investment in internal growth. we anticipate that we will continue to pursue an aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the company or operate any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing 19 table of contents on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue. we have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. we cannot assure that we will realize earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors expectations. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future: fluctuations in the oil and gas industry; competition; the ability to service the debt obligations of the company; the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices; the ability to manage and control operating costs of the company; fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the united states and abroad; and the ability to protect our intellectual property rights. there are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability, currency restrictions, and trade and economic sanctions. approximately 73% of our revenues in 2009 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in canada, europe, the middle east, africa, southeast asia, latin america and other international markets. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies. our operations outside the united states could also expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. the u.s. department of justice ( doj ), the u.s. securities and exchange commission and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the foreign corrupt practices act and other federal statutes. under trading sanctions laws, the doj may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. if any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. we have received federal grand jury subpoenas and subsequent inquiries from governmental agencies requesting records related to our compliance with export trade laws and regulations. we have cooperated fully with agents from the department of justice, the bureau of industry and security, the office of foreign assets control, and u.s. immigration and customs enforcement in responding to the inquiries, and we have conducted our own internal review of this matter. at the conclusion of our internal review in the fourth quarter of 2009, we identified possible areas of concern and discussed these areas of concern with the relevant agencies. we are currently negotiating a potential resolution with the agencies involved related to these matters. we currently anticipate that any administrative fine or penalty agreed to as part of a resolution would be within established accruals, and would not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. to the extent a resolution is not negotiated as anticipated, we cannot predict the timing or effect that any resulting government actions may have on our financial position or results of operations. as a result of our internal review and in an effort to prevent any future compliance issues of this nature, we have reviewed and are in the process of enhancing our compliance procedures and training. 20 table of contents the results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the canadian dollar, the euro, the british pound sterling, the norwegian krone and the south korean won. approximately 73% of our 2009 revenue was derived from sales outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. thus, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income. because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net exposure to currency exchange fluctuations. we had forward contracts with a notional amount of $2,850 million (with a fair value of $49 million) as of december 31, 2009 to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are also subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results. an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings. the company has approximately $5.5 billion of goodwill and $0.6 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2009. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant reduction in worldwide well remediation activity; a significant reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity; resulting in an increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. see additional discussion on goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets in critical accounting estimates of item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or environmental damage and suspension of operations. 21 table of contents our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. the u.s. congress is currently working on legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the united states, which includes establishing cap-and-trade programs. in addition to the pending climate legislation, the u.s. environmental protection agency has proposed regulations that would require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities, and may issue final rules this year. these changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. the company had revenues of 16.6% of total revenue from one of its customers for the year ended december 31, 2009. the loss of this customer or a significant reduction in its purchases could adversely affect our future revenues and earnings. 22 table of contents glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds ( pdcs ). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. 23 table of contents drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. fpso a floating production storage and offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. hydraulic fracturing the process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1. in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. 24 table of contents kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four- or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four- or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. compare break out. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment equipment used in: 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. 25 table of contents riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shaker see shale shaker shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. 26 table of contents sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. tiebacks (subsea) a series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. wellhead the termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange rates. provision for income taxes the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2009 was 33.3% compared to 33.5% for 2008. the tax rate includes $21 million of additional tax provision recognized in the second quarter 2009 on prior year income in norway. these additional taxes resulted from foreign currency gains on dollar-denominated accounts that were realized for norwegian tax purposes. the company expects its income tax rate to be in the 30% to 32% range in 2010. 40 table of contents years ended december 31, 2008 and december 31, 2007 the following table summarizes the company revenue and operating profit by operating segment in 2008 and 2007. the actual results include results from grant prideco operations from the acquisition date of april 21, 2008 (in millions): years ended december 31, variance 2008 2007 $ % revenue: rig technology $ 7,528 $ 5,745 $ 1,783 31.0 % petroleum services supplies 4,651 3,061 1,590 51.9 % distribution services 1,772 1,424 348 24.4 % eliminations (520 ) (441 ) (79 ) 17.9 % total revenue $ 13,431 $ 9,789 $ 3,642 37.2 % operating profit: rig technology $ 1,970 $ 1,394 $ 576 41.3 % petroleum services supplies 1,044 732 312 42.6 % distribution services 130 94 36 38.3 % unallocated expenses and eliminations (226 ) (176 ) (50 ) 28.4 % total operating profit $ 2,918 $ 2,044 $ 874 42.8 % operating profit %: rig technology 26.2 % 24.3 % petroleum services supplies 22.4 % 23.9 % distribution services 7.3 % 6.6 % total operating profit % 21.7 % 20.9 % rig technology rig technology revenue for the year ended december 31, 2008 was $7,528 million, an increase of $1,783 million (31.0%) compared to 2007. revenue out of backlog increased $1,217 million or 29.8% from 2007 due to the growing market for capital equipment, as evidenced by backlog growth during the first three quarters of 2008. the increase in orders and backlog resulted from continued capital investments by drilling contractors in 2008, primarily related to the international offshore market. non-backlog revenue increased $567 million or 34.1% over 2007, largely due to increased spare parts sales and service revenues related to the increased drilling activity during the year. operating profit from rig technology was $1,970 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, an increase of $576 million (41.3%) over the same period of 2007. the increase in operating profit was largely due to the increased activity discussed above as well as improved pricing on large rig contracts and aftermarket products. the rig technology group monitors its capital equipment backlog to plan its business. new orders are added to backlog only when we receive a firm written order for major drilling rig components or a signed contract related to a construction project. the capital equipment backlog was $11.1 billion at december 31, 2008, an increase of $2.1 billion (23.3%) over backlog of $9.0 billion at december 31, 2007. petroleum services supplies revenue from petroleum services supplies was $4,651 million for 2008 compared to $3,061 million for 2007, an increase of $1,590 million (51.9%). the increase was mostly attributable to the acquisition of grant prideco which contributed sales of $1,435 million since the acquisition date of april 21, 2008. higher demand for most of the products and services offered by the segment also contributed to the higher revenue compared to 2007. rig count in north america and international markets during 2008 were up 6.9% and 7.3%, respectively, compared to 2007 averages, prompting higher demand from our services group. operating profit from petroleum services supplies was $1,044 million for 2008 compared to $732 million for 2007, an increase of $312 million (42.6%). grant prideco contributed $297 million of operating profit since april 21, 2008. included in the grant prideco operating profit was $89 million of expense recorded in cost of revenue that resulted from the fair value step-up of inventory as part of the purchase accounting valuation of grant prideco. the increase was also attributable to higher profitability across most product lines. 41 table of contents distribution services revenue from distribution services totaled $1,772 million in 2008, an increase of $348 million (24.4%) from the prior period. the number of drilling rigs actively searching for oil and gas is a key metric for this business segment. worldwide rig count increased 7.1% in 2008 compared to 2007, with increases of 10.3%, 7.3% and 6.3% in canada, international and the u.s. rig activity, respectively. the company distribution services segment continued efforts to expand in international markets resulted in a 25% increase in international revenue. the expansion primarily consisted of opening rig stores or facilities that maintain levels of consumables used on rigs, in centrally located areas. in addition, the company has begun to open stores on individual rigs. after opening its first rig store in 2007, the company opened eight additional stores during 2008 continuing the efforts to expand its presence both in the u.s. and internationally. operating income increased in 2008 to $130 million compared to $94 million in 2007. margins increased slightly to 7.3% of revenue in 2008 compared to 6.6% of revenue in 2007. the increase in margin was primarily due to the cost reduction actions taken in canada to offset the weakening demand seen in the later part of 2007 combined with the increase in profit margins from international locations. unallocated expenses and eliminations unallocated expenses and eliminations were $226 million for the year ended december 31, 2008 compared to $176 million for 2007. the increase in unallocated expenses and eliminations was primarily due to greater inter-segment profit eliminations and greater stock-based compensation expense. the stock-based compensation expense was $61 million and $43 million for the years ended december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. the 2008 results also included $11 million of integration costs related to the 2008 acquisition of grant prideco. interest and financial costs interest and financial costs were $67 million for 2008 compared to $50 million for 2007. the increase was primarily due to the borrowings related to the merger with grant prideco. equity income in unconsolidated affiliate equity income in unconsolidated affiliate was $42 million for 2008 and was related to the april 21, 2008 acquisition of grant prideco. the income was related to the equity earnings from the company 50.01% investment in voest-alpine tubulars ( vat ) located in kindberg, austria. the company investment in vat is accounted for under the equity method of accounting due to the minority owner having substantive participating rights. step-up depreciation and amortization of $8 million was recorded in 2008 related to vat and charges of $11 million were recorded related to inventory step-up. other income (expense), net other income (expense), net was an income, net of $23 million and an expense of $18 million for the years ended december 31, 2008 and december 31, 2007, respectively. the 2008 income was primarily due to a net foreign exchange gain which was $50 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, as compared to a net foreign exchange loss of $7 million for the year ended december 31, 2007. the 2008 foreign exchange gains were primarily due to the weakening of the british pound sterling, canadian dollar and norwegian krone compared to the u.s. dollar. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange rates. provision for income taxes the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2008 was 33.5% compared to 33.3% for 2007. the 2008 rate reflects increasing benefits in the u.s. from the tax incentive for manufacturing activities and a higher percentage of earnings in foreign jurisdictions with lower tax rates. this was partially offset by additional tax provisions related to the company decision to repatriate earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries during the year and net higher tax expense in norway related to movement in exchange rates after the change of the functional currency to the u.s. dollar. the net additional tax expense in norway included a $46 million charge resulting from realized foreign exchange gains on u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities. this was partially offset by a $30 million benefit for the same period, which was reported as provision for income tax, from the remeasurement into u.s. dollars of foreign currency denominated deferred tax assets and liabilities in the balance sheet. 42 table of contents liquidity and capital resources at december 31, 2009, the company had cash and cash equivalents of $2,622 million, and total debt of $883 million. at december 31, 2008, cash and cash equivalents were $1,543 million and total debt was $874 million. a portion of the consolidated cash balances are maintained in accounts in various foreign subsidiaries and, if such amounts were transferred among countries or repatriated to the u.s., such amounts may be subject to additional tax obligations. the company outstanding debt at december 31, 2009 consisted of $200 million of 5.65% senior notes due 2012, $200 million of 7.25% senior notes due 2011, $150 million of 6.5% senior notes due 2011, $150 million of 5.5% senior notes due 2012, $151 million of 6.125% senior notes due 2015, and other debt of $32 million. the company had $2,073 million of additional outstanding letters of credit at december 31, 2009, primarily in norway, that are essentially under various bilateral committed letter of credit facilities. other letters of credit are issued as bid bonds and performance bonds. the senior notes contain reporting covenants and the credit facility contains a financial covenant regarding maximum debt to capitalization. we were in compliance with all covenants at december 31, 2009. there were no borrowings against the company unsecured credit facility, and there were $588 million in outstanding letters of credit issued under the facility, resulting in $1,412 million of funds available under the company unsecured revolving credit facility at december 31, 2009. the following table summarizes our net cash flows provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash provided by (used in) financing activities for the periods presented (in millions): years ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,095 $ 2,294 $ 1,188 net cash used in investing activities (552 ) (2,473 ) (575 ) net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (491 ) (74 ) 150 operating activities net cash flow provided by operating activities in 2009 decreased $199 million to $2,095 million compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2,294 million in the same period of 2008. before changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions, cash was provided by operations primarily through net income of $1,473 million plus non-cash charges of $704 million and dividends from unconsolidated affiliates of $86 million less $47 million in equity income from the company unconsolidated affiliate. net changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions, used cash of $22 million during 2009, compared to $147 million used during 2008. investing activities net cash used in investing activities in 2009 was $552 million compared to net cash used in investing of $2,473 million for the same period of 2008. the primary reason for the decrease in cash used in investing activities in 2009 related to a decrease in size of business acquisitions, net of cash acquired, to approximately $573 million compared to $3,008 million used in 2008 which included the purchase of the business and operating assets of grant prideco. sale of equity interest provided $251 million of cash in 2009 compared to business divestitures of $801 million received in 2008 related to the disposition of certain grant prideco tubular businesses. in addition, the company used $250 million for capital expenditures in 2009, compared to $379 million in 2008, received $19 million less in dividends from its unconsolidated affiliate compared to 2008, and included $86 million of the dividends from unconsolidated affiliate received in 2009 in operating activities. financing activities net cash used in financing activities in 2009 was $491 million compared to net cash used in financing activities of $74 million for the same period of 2008. the cash used in financing activities in 2009 primarily related to $460 million in cash dividends paid during the last month of 2009. in addition, cash used in financing activities in 2009 related to $47 million cash payments on debt primarily acquired in 2009 acquisitions, offset by cash proceeds from borrowings in the amount of $7 million as well as exercised stock options and excess tax benefit from the exercise of stock options in the amount of $9 million. the borrowings and payments of debt in 2008 primarily relates to the financing of the grant prideco acquisition. for 2009, the company used its cash on hand to fund its acquisitions. 43 table of contents the effect of the change in exchange rates on cash flows was a positive $27 million and a negative $46 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. we believe cash on hand, cash generated from operations and amounts available under the credit facility and from other sources of debt will be sufficient to fund operations, working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements and financing obligations. at december 31, 2009, the company had $1,412 million of available funds under its revolving credit facility. we also believe increases in capital expenditures caused by any need to increase manufacturing capacity can be funded from operations or through existing available debt financing. a summary of the company outstanding contractual obligations at december 31, 2009 is as follows (in millions): payment due by period less than after total 1 year 1-3 years 4-5 years 5 years contractual obligations: total debt $ 883 $ 7 $ 717 $ 6 $ 153 operating leases 553 122 156 96 179 total contractual obligations $ 1,436 $ 129 $ 873 $ 102 $ 332 commercial commitments: standby letters of credit $ 2,661 $ 1,762 $ 721 $ 176 $ 2 as of december 31, 2009, the company had $58 million of unrecognized tax benefits. this represents the tax benefits associated with various tax positions taken, or expected to be taken, on domestic and international tax returns that have not been recognized in our financial statements due to uncertainty regarding their resolution. due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with these unrecognized tax benefits, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. accordingly, unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. for further information related to unrecognized tax benefits, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. we intend to pursue additional acquisition candidates, but the timing, size or success of any acquisition effort and the related potential capital commitments cannot be predicted. we expect to fund future cash acquisitions and capital spending primarily with cash flow from operations and borrowings, including the unborrowed portion of the credit facility or new debt issuances, but may also issue additional equity either directly or in connection with acquisitions. there can be no assurance that additional financing for acquisitions will be available at terms acceptable to us. critical accounting estimates in preparing the financial statements, we make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported. we periodically evaluate our estimates and judgments that are most critical in nature which are related to revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts; allowance for doubtful accounts; inventory reserves; impairments of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets); goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and income taxes. our estimates are based on historical experience and on our future expectations that we believe are reasonable. the combination of these factors forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results are likely to differ from our current estimates and those differences may be material. revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts the company uses the percentage-of-completion method to account for certain long-term construction contracts in the rig technology group. these long-term construction contracts include the following characteristics: the contracts include custom designs for customer specific applications; the structural design is unique and requires significant engineering efforts; and construction projects often have progress payments. 44 table of contents this method requires the company to make estimates regarding the total costs of the project, progress against the project schedule and the estimated completion date, all of which impact the amount of revenue and gross margin the company recognizes in each reporting period. the company prepares detailed cost to complete estimates at the beginning of each project, taking into account all factors considered likely to affect gross margin. significant projects and their related costs and profit margins are updated and reviewed at least quarterly by senior management. factors that may affect future project costs and margins include shipyard access, weather, production efficiencies, availability and costs of labor, materials and subcomponents and other factors as mentioned in risk factors. these factors can significantly impact the accuracy of the company estimates and materially impact the company future reported earnings. historically, the company estimates have been reasonably dependable regarding the recognition of revenues and gross profits on percentage of completion contracts. based upon an analysis of percentage of completion contracts for all open contracts outstanding at december 31, 2008 and 2007, adjustments (representing the differences between the estimated and actual results) to all outstanding contracts resulted in net changes to gross profit margins of 1% ($53 million on $5.4 billion of outstanding contracts) and 0.8% ($31 million on $3.8 billion of outstanding contracts), respectively. while the company believes that its estimates on outstanding contracts at december 31, 2009 and in future periods will continue to be reasonably dependable under percentage of completion accounting, the factors identified in the preceding paragraph could result in significant adjustments in future periods. the company has recorded revenue on outstanding contracts (on a contract-to-date basis) of $8.6 billion at december 31, 2009. allowance for doubtful accounts the determination of the collectability of amounts due from customer accounts requires the company to make judgments regarding future events and trends. allowances for doubtful accounts are determined based on a continuous process of assessing the company portfolio on an individual customer basis taking into account current market conditions and trends. this process consists of a thorough review of historical collection experience, current aging status of the customer accounts, and financial condition of the company customers. based on a review of these factors, the company will establish or adjust allowances for specific customers. a substantial portion of the company revenues come from international oil companies, international shipyards, international oilfield service companies, and government-owned or government-controlled oil companies. therefore, the company has significant receivables in many foreign jurisdictions. if worldwide oil and gas drilling activity or changes in economic conditions in foreign jurisdictions deteriorate, the creditworthiness of the company customers could also deteriorate and they may be unable to pay these receivables, and additional allowances could be required. at december 31, 2009 and 2008, allowance for bad debts totaled $95 million and $73 million, or 4.3% and 2.3% of gross accounts receivable, respectively. historically, the company charge-offs and provisions for the allowance for doubtful accounts have been immaterial to the company consolidated financial statements. however, because of the risk factors mentioned above, changes in our estimates could become material in future periods. inventory reserves inventory is carried at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. the company determines reserves for inventory based on historical usage of inventory on-hand, assumptions about future demand and market conditions, and estimates about potential alternative uses, which are usually limited. the company inventory consists of specialized spare parts, work in process, and raw materials to support ongoing manufacturing operations and the company large installed base of specialized equipment used throughout the oilfield. customers rely on the company to stock these specialized items to ensure that their equipment can be repaired and serviced in a timely manner. the company estimated carrying value of inventory therefore depends upon demand driven by oil and gas drilling and well remediation activity, which depends in turn upon oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the company customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. at december 31, 2009 and 2008, inventory reserves totaled $206 million and $123 million, or 5.9% and 3.1% of gross inventory, respectively. while inventory reserves and accruals have not had a material impact on the company financial results for the periods covered in this report, changes in worldwide oil and gas activity, or the development of new technologies which make older drilling technologies obsolete, could require the company to record additional allowances to reduce the value of its inventory. such changes in our estimates could be material under weaker market conditions or outlook. 45 table of contents impairment of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets) long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment and identified intangible assets, comprise a significant amount of the company total assets. the company makes judgments and estimates in conjunction with the carrying value of these assets, including amounts to be capitalized, depreciation and amortization methods and estimated useful lives. the carrying values of these assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. an impairment loss is recorded in the period in which it is determined that the carrying amount is not recoverable. we estimate the fair value of these intangible and fixed assets using an income approach. this requires the company to make long-term forecasts of its future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review. these forecasts require assumptions about demand for the company products and services, future market conditions and technological developments. the forecasts are dependent upon assumptions regarding oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the company customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. the financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our income forecast as well as our weighted-average cost of capital, both key assumptions used in our calculation. changes to these assumptions, including, but not limited to: further sustained declines in worldwide rig counts below current analysts forecasts, further collapse of spot and futures prices for oil and gas, significant additional deterioration of external financing for our customers, higher risk premiums or higher cost of equity, or any other significant adverse economic news could require a provision for impairment in a future period. due to further significant declines in the company stock price and oil and gas commodity prices, coupled with unprecedented turbulence in the credit markets, the company determined a triggering event occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008. the company performed an impairment analysis at december 31, 2008 which did not result in an impairment charge. goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets the company has approximately $5.5 billion of goodwill and $0.6 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2009. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually or more frequently whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include, but not limited to: further sustained declines in worldwide rig counts below current analysts forecasts, further collapse of spot and futures prices for oil and gas, significant additional deterioration of external financing for our customers, higher risk premiums or higher cost of equity. the annual impairment test is performed during the fourth quarter of each year. based on its analysis, the company did not report any impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for the years ended december 31, 2008 and 2007. as described below, the company concluded that an indicator of impairment occurred in the second quarter of 2009 and updated its impairment testing at june 30, 2009. based on its updated analysis, the company concluded that it did not incur an impairment of goodwill for the period ended june 30, 2009. however, based on the company indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment analysis performed during the second quarter of 2009, the company concluded that it incurred an impairment charge to certain indefinite-lived intangible assets of $147 million at june 30, 2009. the $147 million impairment charge is included in the company consolidated income statement for the year ended december 31, 2009. during the second quarter of 2009, the worldwide average rig count was 2,009 rigs, down 41% from the fourth quarter 2008 average of 3,395 and down 25% from the first quarter 2009 average of 2,681. the second quarter 2009 average rig count represented the lowest quarterly average in the past six years. in addition, the company updated forecast was behind the company previous forecast completed at the beginning of 2009. while operating profit for the first quarter of 2009 was in line with the company first quarter 2009 operating profit forecast, the company consolidated operating profit for the second quarter of 2009 was below its second quarter 2009 forecast. as a result of the substantial decline in the worldwide rig count, and the decline in actual/forecasted results compared to the original 2009 forecast, the company concluded that events or circumstances had occurred indicating that goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets might be impaired as described under accounting standards codification ( asc ) topic 350 intangibles - goodwill and other . therefore, the company performed its interim impairment test of goodwill for all its reporting units at the end of the second quarter of 2009. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined by deducting the fair value of a reporting unit identifiable assets and liabilities from the fair value of that reporting unit as a whole. fair value of the reporting units is determined in accordance with asc topic 820 fair value measurements and disclosures using significant unobservable inputs, or level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. these inputs are based on internal management estimates, forecasts and judgments, using a combination of three methods: discounted cash flow, comparable companies, and representative transactions. while the company primarily uses the discounted cash flow method to assess fair value, the company uses the comparable companies and representative transaction methods to validate the discounted cash flow analysis and further support management expectations, where possible. 46 table of contents the discounted cash flow is based on management short-term and long-term forecast of operating performance for each reporting unit. the two main assumptions used in measuring goodwill impairment, which bear the risk of change and could impact the company goodwill impairment analysis, include the cash flow from operations from each of the company individual business units and the weighted average cost of capital. the starting point for each of the reporting unit cash flow from operations is the detailed annual plan or updated forecast. the detailed planning and forecasting process takes into consideration a multitude of factors including worldwide rig activity, inflationary forces, pricing strategies, customer analysis, operational issues, competitor analysis, capital spending requirements, working capital needs, customer needs to replace aging equipment, increased complexity of drilling, new technology, and existing backlog among other items which impact the individual reporting unit projections. cash flows beyond the specific operating plans were estimated using a terminal value calculation, which incorporated historical and forecasted financial cyclical trends for each reporting unit and considered long-term earnings growth rates. the financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate. during times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit changes are a short-term or long-term trend. projections for the remainder of 2009 also reflected declines compared to the original 2009 annual forecast. the company updated its 2009 operating forecast, long-term forecast, and discounted cash flows based on this information. the goodwill impairment analysis that we performed during the second quarter of 2009 did not result in goodwill impairment as of june 30, 2009. other indefinite-lived intangible assets, representing trade names management intends to use indefinitely, were valued using significant unobservable inputs (level 3) and are tested for impairment using the relief from royalty method, a form of the income approach. an impairment is measured and recognized based on the amount the book value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeds its estimated fair value as of the date of the impairment test. included in the impairment test are assumptions, for each trade name, regarding the related revenue streams attributable to the trade names which are determined consistent with the forecasting process described above, the royalty rate, and the discount rate applied. based on the company indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment analysis performed during the second quarter of 2009, the company incurred an impairment charge of $147 million in the petroleum services supplies segment related to a partial impairment of the company grant prideco trade name. the impairment charge was primarily the result of the substantial decline in worldwide rig counts through june 2009, declines in forecasts in rig activity for the remainder of 2009, 2010, and 2011 compared to rig count forecast at the beginning of 2009 and a decline in the revenue forecast for the drill pipe business unit for the remainder of 2009, 2010, and 2011. during the fourth quarter of 2009, the company further updated its impairment testing using current operating forecasts and discounted cash flows. in the third and fourth quarters of 2009, both rig activity and commodity prices began to increase. rig count increased 4% to an average of 2,130 in the third quarter and increased another 13% to an average of 2,397 in the fourth quarter. average west texas intermediate crude prices reached $76.06 in the fourth quarter of 2009, an increase of 28% from an average of $59.44 in the second quarter of 2009. in addition, by the end of the fourth quarter, average natural gas prices increased to $4.34, a 17% increase from the second quarter 2009 average of $3.71. the impairment analysis that we performed during the fourth quarter of 2009 resulted in no impairment of the company goodwill and no additional impairment for the company other indefinite-lived intangible assets for the year ended december 31, 2009. along with the normal impairment analysis, the company performed a sensitivity analysis on the projected results, the goodwill and the other indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment analysis assuming revenue for each individual reporting unit for goodwill and each individual indefinite-lived intangible asset decreased an additional 20% from the current projections for 2010, 2011 and 2012, while holding all other factors constant and no impairment was identified. additionally, if the company were to increase its discount rate 100 basis points, while keeping all other assumptions constant, there would be no impairments in any of the goodwill associated with the company reporting units or any of the company indefinite-lived intangible assets. while the company does not believe that these events (20% drop in additional revenue for the next three years or 100 basis point increases in weighted average costs of capital) or changes are likely to occur, it is reasonably possible these events could transpire if market conditions worsen and if the market fails to continue to recover in 2010 and/or 2011. any significant changes to these assumptions and factors could have a material impact on the company goodwill impairment analysis. inherent in our projections are key assumptions relative to how long the current downward cycle might last. service and product warranties the company provides service and warranty policies on certain of its products. the company accrues liabilities under service and warranty policies based upon specific claims and a review of historical warranty and service claim experience in accordance with asc topic 450 contingencies ( asc topic 450 ). adjustments are made to accruals as claim data and historical experience change. in addition, the company incurs discretionary costs to service its products in connection with product performance issues and accrues for them when they are encountered. at december 31, 2009 and 2008, service and product warranties totaled $217 million and $114 million, respectively. 47 table of contents income taxes the company is a u.s. registered company and is subject to income taxes in the u.s. the company operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. income taxes have been provided based upon the tax laws and rates of the countries in which the company operates and income is earned. the company annual tax provision is based on expected taxable income, statutory rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. the determination and evaluation of the annual tax provision and tax positions involves the interpretation of the tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which the company operates. it requires significant judgment and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events such as the amount, timing and character of income, deductions and tax credits. changes in tax laws, regulations, and treaties, foreign currency exchange restrictions or the company level of operations or profitability in each jurisdiction could impact the tax liability in any given year. the company also operates in many jurisdictions where the tax laws relating to the pricing of transactions between related parties are open to interpretation, which could potentially result in aggressive tax authorities asserting additional tax liabilities with no offsetting tax recovery in other countries. the company maintains liabilities for estimated tax exposures in jurisdictions of operation. the annual tax provision includes the impact of income tax provisions and benefits for changes to liabilities that the company considers appropriate, as well as related interest. tax exposure items primarily include potential challenges to intercompany pricing and certain operating expenses that may not be deductible in foreign jurisdictions. these exposures are resolved primarily through the settlement of audits within these tax jurisdictions or by judicial means. the company is subject to audits by federal, state and foreign jurisdictions which may result in proposed assessments. the company believes that an appropriate liability has been established for estimated exposures under the guidance in asc topic 740 income taxes (asc topic 740 ). however, actual results may differ materially from these estimates. the company reviews these liabilities quarterly and to the extent audits or other events result in an adjustment to the liability accrued for a prior year, the effect will be recognized in the period of the event. the company currently has recorded valuation allowances that the company intends to maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. income tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in the company valuation allowances. the realization of remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that the company record an additional valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. an increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on future earnings. the company has not provided for deferred taxes on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries that are permanently reinvested. should the company make a distribution from the unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries, the company may be required to record additional taxes. unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries were $2,764 million and $2,255 million at december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. the company makes an annual determination whether to permanently reinvest these earnings. if, as a result of these reassessments, the company distributes these earnings in the future, additional tax liability would result, offset by any available foreign tax credits. the company does not believe it is possible to reasonably estimate the potential impact of changes to the assumptions and estimates identified because the resulting change to our tax liability, if any, is dependent on numerous factors which cannot be reasonably estimated. these include, among others, the amount and nature of additional taxes potentially asserted by local tax authorities; the willingness of local tax authorities to negotiate a fair settlement through an administrative process; the impartiality of the local courts; and the potential for changes in the tax paid to one country to either produce, or fail to produce, an offsetting tax change in other countries. recently issued accounting standards in april 2009 the fasb issued asc topic 805, business combinations ( asc topic 805 ). asc topic 805 amends the provisions for the initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and accounting, and disclosures for assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in business combinations. asc topic 805 is effective for contingent assets and contingent liabilities acquired in business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after december 15, 2008. the company expects asc topic 805 will have a future impact on its consolidated financial statements, but the nature and magnitude of the specific effects will depend upon the nature, term and size of the acquired contingencies. in april 2009, the fasb issued asc topic 825, financial instruments ( asc topic 825 ). asc topic 825 extends the annual disclosure requirements regarding the fair value of financial instruments to interim financial statements of publicly traded companies. asc topic 825 is effective for interim reporting periods ending after june 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted for periods ending after march 15, 2009. on june 1, 2009, the company adopted asc topic 825. there was no significant impact to the company consolidated financial statements from the adoption of asc topic 825. 48 table of contents in may 2009, the fasb issued asc topic 855, subsequent events ( asc topic 855 ). asc topic 855 requires the disclosure of the date through which an entity has evaluated subsequent events and the basis for that date. asc topic 855 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods ending after june 15, 2009. on june 1, 2009, the company adopted asc topic 855. there was no significant impact to the company consolidated financial statements from the adoption of asc topic 855. in june 2009, the fasb issued asc topic 105, generally accepted accounting standards ( asc topic 105 ). the asc is now the source of authoritative u.s. gaap recognized by the fasb to be applied by nongovernmental entities. rules and interpretive releases of the sec under authority of federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative gaap for sec registrants. on the effective date, asc topic 105 superseded all then-existing non-sec accounting and reporting standards. all other non-grandfathered non-sec accounting literature not included in the asc has become non-authoritative. asc topic 105 became effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after september 15, 2009. forward-looking statements some of the information in this document contains, or has incorporated by reference, forward-looking statements. statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements typically are identified by use of terms such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate, and similar words, although some forward-looking statements are expressed differently. all statements herein regarding expected merger synergies are forward looking statements. you should be aware that our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including but not limited to changes in oil and gas prices, customer demand for our products and worldwide economic activity. you should also consider carefully the statements under risk factors which address additional factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. given these uncertainties, current or prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to update any such factors or forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. 49 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have extensive operations in foreign countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the company reported foreign currency gains (losses) of ($79) million, $50 million, and ($7) million, respectively. the gains and losses are primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency and in 2009 adjustments to our hedged positions as a result of the current economic environment. strengthening of currencies against the u.s. dollar may create losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the countries using the local currency as their functional currency. some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. similarly some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated u.s. dollar costs, which also give rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. the following table details the company foreign currency exchange risk grouped by functional currency and their expected maturity periods as of december 31, 2009 (in millions except for rates): as of december 31, 2009 december 31, functional currency 2010 2011 2012 total 2008 cad buy usd/sell cad: notional amount to buy (in canadian dollars) 291 291 527 average cad to usd contract rate 1.0418 1.0418 1.1843 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars 2 2 14 sell usd/buy cad: notional amount to sell (in canadian dollars) 69 69 241 average cad to usd contract rate 1.1109 1.1109 1.1196 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars 4 4 (18 ) eur buy usd/sell eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 98 98 11 average usd to eur contract rate 1.4356 1.4356 1.4397 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 90 1 91 245 average usd to eur contract rate 1.3892 1.4324 1.3896 1.3986 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars 4 4 1 krw sell eur/buy krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 4,777 273 5,050 average krw to eur contract rate 1.633 1.743 1.6390 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars 50 table of contents as of december 31, 2009 december 31, functional currency 2010 2011 2012 total 2008 sell usd/buy krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 88,183 61,779 3,264 153,226 average krw to usd contract rate 1.019 1.084 1.118 1.0460 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars (12 ) (6 ) (18 ) gbp buy usd/sell gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 11 11 average usd to gbp contract rate 1.5880 1.5880 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 2 2 34 average usd to gbp contract rate 1.5313 1.5313 1.5647 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars (4 ) usd buy dkk/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 44 44 47 average dkk to usd contract rate 5.1219 5.1219 5.4968 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) 2 buy eur/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 374 8 382 749 average usd to eur contract rate 1.4588 1.4150 1.4578 1.3791 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars (7 ) (7 ) 14 buy gbp/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 76 76 108 average usd to gbp contract rate 1.6348 1.6348 1.5623 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars (2 ) (2 ) (8 ) buy nok/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 783 311 1,094 1,325 average nok to usd contract rate 6.2161 6.2541 6.2269 6.5338 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars 49 18 67 (101 ) sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 6 6 average dkk to usd contract rate 5.0009 5.0009 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars sell eur/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 53 3 56 76 average usd to eur contract rate 1.4444 1.2715 1.4324 1.3777 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars (2 ) sell nok/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 408 408 589 average nok to usd contract rate 5.8307 5.8307 5.8647 fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars 104 other currencies fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars 1 (1 ) total fair value at december 31, 2009 in u.s. dollars 38 11 49 2 the company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies totaling $75 million as of december 31, 2009 excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on these financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect net income by $5 million. 51 table of contents the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. we assess the functional currencies of our operating units to ensure that the appropriate currencies are utilized in accordance with the guidance of asc topic 830 foreign currency matters . effective january 1, 2008, we changed the functional currency of our rig technology unit in norway from the norwegian krone to the u.s. dollar to more appropriately reflect the primary economic environment in which they operate. this change was precipitated by significant changes in the economic facts and circumstances, including: the increased order rate for large drilling platforms and components technology, the use of our norway unit as our preferred project manager of these projects, increasing revenue and cost base in u.s. dollars, and the implementation of an international cash pool denominated in u.s. dollars. as a norwegian krone functional unit, norway was subject to increasing foreign currency exchange risk as a result of these changes in its economic environment and was dependent upon significant hedging transactions to offset its non-functional currency positions. at december 31, 2007, our norway operations had foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $2,551 million with a fair value of $91 million to mitigate foreign currency exchange risk against the u.s. dollar, our reporting currency. effective with the change in the functional currency, the company terminated these hedges. the related net gain position of $109 million associated with the terminated hedges has been deferred and is being recognized into earnings in the future period(s) the forecasted transactions affect earnings, of which $10 million remains to be recognized into future earnings at december 31, 2009. the company has subsequent to january 1, 2008, entered into new hedges to cover the exposures as a result of the changes to u.s. dollar functional. at december 31, 2009, our norway operations had derivatives with $2,024 million in notional value with a fair value of $58 million, included in the table above. interest rate risk at december 31, 2009 our long term borrowings consisted of $150 million in 6.5% senior notes, $200 million in 7.25% senior notes, $200 million in 5.65% senior notes, $150 million in 5.5% senior notes and $151 million in 6.125% senior notes. we occasionally have borrowings under our credit facility, and a portion of these borrowings could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from libor, nibor or euribor, or at the prime interest rate. under our credit facility, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or euribor for 30 days to 6 months.risk factors and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview of oil and gas well drilling and servicing processes oil and gas wells are usually drilled by drilling contractors using a drilling rig. a bit is attached to the end of a drill stem, which is assembled by the drilling rig and its crew from 30-foot joints of drill pipe and specialized drilling components known as downhole tools. using the conventional rotary drilling method, the drill stem is turned from the rotary table of the drilling rig by torque applied to the kelly, which is screwed into the top of the drill stem. increasingly, drilling is performed using a drilling motor, which is attached to the bottom of the drill stem and provides rotational force directly to the bit, rather than such force being supplied by the rotary table. the use of a drilling motor permits the drilling contractor to drill directionally, including horizontally. the company sells and rents drilling motors, drill bits, downhole tools and drill pipe through its petroleum services supplies segment. during drilling, heavy drilling fluids or drilling muds are pumped down the drill stem and forced out through jets in the bit. the drilling mud returns to the surface through the space between the borehole wall and the drill stem, carrying with it the drill cuttings drilled out by the bit. the drill cuttings are removed from the mud by a solids control system (which can include shakers, centrifuges and other specialized equipment) and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. the solids control system permits the mud, which is often comprised of expensive chemicals, to be continuously reused and recirculated back into the hole. through its rig technology segment, the company sells the large mud pumps that are used to pump drilling mud through the drill stem. through its petroleum services supplies segment, the company sells transfer pumps and mud pump consumables; sells and rents solids control equipment; and provides solids control, waste management and drilling fluids services. many operators internally coat the drill stem to improve its hydraulic efficiency and protect it from corrosive fluids sometimes encountered during drilling, and inspect and assess the integrity of the drill pipe from time to time. the company provides drill pipe inspection and coating services, and applies hardbanding material to drill pipe to improve its wear characteristics. these services are provided through the petroleum services supplies segment. additionally, the petroleum services supplies segment manufactures and sells drill pipe. as the hole depth increases, the kelly must be removed frequently so that additional 30-foot joints of drill pipe can be added to the drill stem. when the bit becomes dull or the equipment at the bottom of the drill stem including the drilling motors otherwise requires servicing, the entire drill stem is pulled out of the hole and disassembled by disconnecting the joints of drill pipe. these are set aside or racked, the old bit is replaced or service is performed, and the drill stem is reassembled and lowered back into the hole (a process called tripping ). during drilling and tripping operations, joints of drill pipe must be screwed together and tightened ( made up ), and loosened and unscrewed ( spun out ). the rig technology segment provides drilling equipment to manipulate and maneuver the drill pipe in this manner. when the hole has reached certain depths, all of the drill pipe is pulled out of the hole and larger diameter pipe known as casing is lowered into the hole and permanently cemented in place in order to protect against collapse and contamination of the hole. the casing is typically inspected before it is lowered into the hole, a service the petroleum services supplies segment provides. the rig technology segment manufactures pressure pumping equipment that is used to cement the casing in place. 4 the raising and lowering of the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and the lowering of casing into the wellbore, is accomplished with the rig hoisting system. a conventional hoisting system is a block and tackle mechanism that works within the drilling rig derrick. the lifting of this mechanism is performed via a series of pulleys that are attached to the drawworks at the base of the derrick. the rig technology segment sells and installs drawworks and pipe hoisting systems. during the course of normal drilling operations, the drill stem passes through different geological formations, which exhibit varying pressure characteristics. if this pressure is not contained, oil, gas and/or water would flow out of these formations to the surface. the two means of containing these pressures are (i) primarily the circulation of drilling muds while drilling and (ii) secondarily the use of blowout preventers ( bops ) should the mud prove inadequate and in an emergency situation. the rig technology segment sells and services blowout preventers. drilling muds are carefully designed to exhibit certain qualities that optimize the drilling process. in addition to containing formation pressure, they must (i) provide power to the drilling motor, (ii) carry drilled solids to the surface, (iii) protect the drilled formations from being damaged, and (iv) cool the drill bit. achieving these objectives often requires a formulation specific to a given well and can involve the use of expensive chemicals as well as natural materials such as certain types of clay. the fluid itself is often oil or more expensive synthetic mud. given this expense, it is highly desirable to reuse as much of the drilling mud as possible. solids control equipment such as shale shakers, centrifuges, cuttings dryers, and mud cleaners help accomplish this objective. the petroleum services supplies segment rents, sells, operates and services this equipment. drilling muds are formulated based on expected drilling conditions. however, as the hole is drilled, the drill stem may encounter a high pressure zone where the mud density is inadequate to maintain sufficient pressure. should efforts to weight up the mud in order to contain such a pressure kick fail, a blowout could result, whereby reservoir fluids would flow uncontrolled into the well. to prevent blowouts to the surface of the well, a series of high-pressure valves known as blowout preventers are positioned at the top of the well and, when activated, form tight seals that prevent the escape of fluids. when closed, conventional bops prevent normal rig operations. therefore, the bops are activated only if drilling mud and normal well control procedures cannot safely contain the pressure. the operations of the rig and the condition of the drilling mud are closely monitored by various sensors, which measure operating parameters such as the weight on the rig hook, the incidence of pressure kicks, the operation of the drilling mud pumps, etc. through its rig technology segment, the company sells and rents drilling rig instrumentation packages that perform these monitoring functions. during the drilling and completion of a well, there exists an ongoing need for various consumables and spare parts. while most of these items are small, in the aggregate they represent an important element of the process. since it is impractical for each drilling location to have a full supply of these items, drilling contractors and well service companies tend to rely on third parties to stock and deliver these items. the company provides this capability through its distribution services segment, which stocks and sells spares and consumables made by third parties, as well as spares and consumables made by the company. after the well has reached its total depth and the final section of casing has been set, the drilling rig is moved off of the well and the well is prepared to begin producing oil or gas in a process known as well completion. well completion usually involves installing production tubing concentrically in the casing. due to the corrosive nature of many produced fluids, production tubing is often inspected and coated, services offered by the petroleum services supplies segment. sometimes operators choose to use corrosion resistant composite materials, which the company also offers through its petroleum services supplies segment, or corrosion-resistant alloys, or operators sometimes pump fluids into wells to inhibit corrosion. from time to time, a producing well may undergo workover procedures to extend its life and increase its production rate. workover rigs are used to disassemble the wellhead, tubing and other completion components of an existing well in order to stimulate or remediate the well. workover rigs are similar to drilling rigs in their capabilities to handle tubing, but are usually smaller and somewhat less sophisticated. the company offers a comprehensive range of workover rigs through its rig technology segment. tubing and sucker rods removed from a well during a well remediation operation are often inspected to determine their suitability to be reused in the well, which is a service the petroleum services supplies segment provides. frequently coiled tubing units or wireline units are used to accomplish certain well remediation operations or well completions. coiled tubing is a recent advancement in petroleum technology consisting of a continuous length of reeled steel tubing which can be injected concentrically into the production tubing all the way to the bottom of most wells. it permits many operations to be performed without disassembling the production tubing, and without curtailing the production of the well. wireline winch units are devices that utilize single-strand or multi-strand wires to perform well remediation operations, such as lowering tools and transmitting data to the surface. through the rig technology segment, the company sells and rents various types of coiled tubing equipment, and wireline equipment and tools. the company also manufactures and sells coiled tubing pipe through its petroleum services supplies segment. 5 rig technology the company has a long tradition of pioneering innovations in drilling and well servicing equipment which improve the efficiency, safety, and cost of drilling and well servicing operations. the rig technology segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of top drives, automated pipe handling systems, motion compensation systems, rig controls, bops, handling tools, drawworks, risers, rotary tables, mud pumps, cranes, drilling motors, turret mooring systems and other products for fpsos and other offshore vessels and terminals, and other drilling equipment for both the onshore and offshore markets. rig technology also manufactures entire rig packages, both drilling and workover, in addition to well servicing equipment such as coiled tubing units, pressure pumping equipment, and wireline winches. the rig technology segment sells directly to drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. rig technology rents and sells proprietary drilling rig instrumentation packages and control systems which monitor various processes throughout the drilling operation, under the name md /totco ( instrumentation ). demand for its products, several of which are described below, is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. land rig packages . the company designs, manufactures, assembles, upgrades, and supplies equipment sets to a variety of land drilling rigs, including those specifically designed to operate in harsh environments such as the arctic circle and the desert. our key land rig product names include the drake rig, ideal rig and rapid rig . the company recent rig packages are designed to be safer and fast moving, to utilize ac technology, and to reduce manpower required to operate a rig. top drives . the top drive drilling system ( tds ), originally introduced by the company in 1982, significantly alters the traditional drilling process. the tds rotates the drill stem from its top, rather than by the rotary table, with a large electric motor affixed to rails installed in the derrick that traverses the length of the derrick to the rig floor. therefore, the tds eliminates the use of the conventional rotary table for drilling. components of the tds also are used to connect additional joints of drill pipe to the drill stem during drilling operations, enabling drilling with three joints of drill pipe compared to traditionally drilling with one joint of drill pipe. additionally, the tds facilitates horizontal and extended reach drilling. electric rig motors. the company has helped lead the application of ac motor technology in the oilfield industry. the company buys motors from third parties and builds them in its own facilities and is further developing motor technology, including the introduction of permanent magnet motor technology to the industry. these permanent magnet motors are being used in top drives, cranes, mud pumps, winches, and drawworks. rotary equipment . the alternative to using a tds to rotate the drill stem is to use a rotary table, which rotates the pipe at the floor of the rig. rig technology produces rotary tables as well as kelly bushings and master bushings for most sizes of kellys and makes of rotary tables. in 1998, the company introduced the rotary support table for use on rigs with a tds. the rotary support table is used in concert with the tds to completely eliminate the need for the larger conventional rotary table. pipe handling systems . pipe racking systems are used to handle drill pipe, casing and tubing on a drilling rig. vertical pipe racking systems move drill pipe and casing between the well and a storage ( racking ) area on the rig floor. horizontal racking systems are used to handle tubulars while stored horizontally (for example, on the pipe deck of an offshore rig) and transport tubulars up to the rig floor and into a vertical position for use in the drilling process. vertical pipe racking systems are used predominantly on offshore rigs and are found on almost all floating rigs. mechanical vertical pipe racking systems greatly reduce the manual effort involved in pipe handling. pipe racking systems, introduced by the company in 1985, provide a fully automated mechanism for handling and racking drill pipe during drilling and tripping operations, spinning and torquing drill pipe, and automatic hoisting and racking of disconnected joints of drill pipe. these functions can be integrated via computer controlled sequencing, and operated by a driller in an environmentally secure cabin. an important element of this system is the iron roughneck, which was originally introduced by the company in 1976 and is an automated device that makes pipe connections on the rig floor and requires less direct involvement of rig floor personnel in potentially dangerous operations. the automated roughneck is an automated microprocessor-controlled version of the iron roughneck. horizontal pipe transfer systems were introduced by the company in 1993. they include the pipe deck machine ( pdm ), which is used to manipulate and move tubulars while stored in a horizontal position; the pipe transfer conveyor ( ptc ), which transports sections of pipe to the rig floor; and a pickup laydown system ( pls ), which raises the pipe to a vertical position for transfer to a vertical racking system. these components may be employed separately, or incorporated together to form a complete horizontal racking system, known as the pipe transfer system ( pts ). 6 pipe handling tools . the company pipe handling tools are designed to enhance the safety, efficiency and reliability of pipe handling operations. many of these tools have provided innovative methods of performing the designated task through mechanization of functions previously performed manually. the rig technology segment manufactures various tools used to grip, hold, raise, and lower pipe, and in the making up and breaking out of drill pipe, workstrings, casing and production tubulars including spinning wrenches, manual tongs, torque wrenches and kelly spinners. mud pumps. mud pumps are high pressure pumps located on the rig that force drilling mud down the drill pipe, through the drill bit, and up the space between the drill pipe and the drilled formation (the annulus ) back to the surface. these pumps, which generate pressures of up to 7,500 psi, must therefore be capable of displacing drilling fluids several thousand feet down and back up the well bore. the conventional mud pump design, known as the triplex pump, uses three reciprocating pistons oriented horizontally. the company has introduced the hex pump, which uses six pumping cylinders, versus the three used in the triplex pump. along with other design features, the greater number of cylinders reduces pulsations (or surges) and increases the output available from a given footprint. reduced pulsation is desirable where downhole measurement equipment is being used during the drilling process, as is often the case in directional drilling. hoisting systems . hoisting systems are used to raise or lower the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and to lower casing into the wellbore. the drawworks is the heart of the hoisting system. it is a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line, which is in turn connected to the drill stem at the top of the derrick. the drawworks also plays an important role in keeping the weight on the drill bit at a desired level. this task is particularly challenging on offshore drilling rigs, which are subject to wave motion. to address this, the company has introduced the active heave drilling ( ahd ) drawworks. the ahd drawworks uses computer-controlled motors to compensate for the motion experienced in offshore drilling operations. cranes. the company provides a comprehensive range of crane solutions, with purpose-built products for all segments of the oil and gas industry as well as many other markets. the company encompasses a broad collection of brand names with international recognition, and includes a large staff of engineers specializing in the design of cranes and related equipment. the product range extends from small cargo-handling cranes to the world largest marine cranes. in all, the company provides over twenty crane product lines that include standard model configurations as well as custom-engineered and specialty cranes. motion compensation systems . traditionally, motion compensation equipment is located on top of the drilling rig and serves to stabilize the bit on the bottom of the hole, increasing drilling effectiveness of floating offshore rigs by compensating for wave and wind action. the ahd drawworks, discussed above, was introduced to eliminate weight and improve safety, removing the compensator from the top of the rig and integrating it into the drawworks system. in addition to the ahd drawworks, the company has introduced an active heave compensation ( ahc ) system that goes beyond the capabilities of the ahd drawworks to handle the most severe weather. additionally, the company tensioning systems provide continuous axial tension to the marine riser pipe (larger diameter pipe which connects floating drilling rigs to the well on the ocean floor) and guide lines on floating drilling rigs, tension leg platforms and jack-up drilling rigs. blowout preventers . bops are devices used to seal the space between the drill pipe and the borehole to prevent blowouts (uncontrolled flows of formation fluids and gases to the surface). the rig technology segment manufactures a wide array of bops used in various situations. ram and annular bops are back-up devices that are activated only if other techniques for controlling pressure in the wellbore are inadequate. when closed, these devices prevent normal rig operations. ram bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing rams (thick heavy blocks of steel) against each other across the wellbore. specially designed packers seal around specific sizes of pipe in the wellbore, shear pipe in the wellbore or close off an open hole. annular bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing a rubber packing unit around the drill pipe or kelly or by sealing against itself if nothing is in the hole. the company pressure control while drilling ( pcwd ) bop, introduced in 1995, allows operators to drill at pressures up to 2,000 psi without interrupting normal operations, and can act as a normal spherical bop at pressures up to 5,000 psi. in 1998, the company introduced the nxt ram type bop which eliminates door bolts, providing significant weight, rig-time, and space savings. its unique features make subsea operation more efficient through faster ram configuration changes without tripping the bop stack. in 2004, the company introduced the lxt, which features many of the design elements of the nxt , but is targeted at the land market. in 2005, the company began commercializing technology related to a continuous circulation device. this device enables drilling contractors to make and break drill pipe connections without stopping the circulation of drilling fluids, which helps increase drilling efficiency. the new shearmaxtm line of low force bop shear rams released in 2010 add substantial tubular shearing capability to the company line of pressure control equipment, including the capability to shear large drill pipe tool joints, previously unheard of in the industry. this innovative shear blade design utilizes patented puncture technology to reduce the shearing pressures 50% or more and in some cases as much as five times lower. the shearmaxtm blind shear provides a shear-and-seal design for drill pipe, while the casing and tjc shears address casing up to 16 od and most tool joints up to 2 wall thickness, respectively. derricks and substructures. drilling activities are carried out from a drilling rig. a drilling rig consists of one or two derricks; the substructure that supports the derrick(s); and the rig package, which consists of the various pieces of equipment discussed above. rig technology designs, fabricates and services derricks used in both onshore and offshore applications, and substructures used in onshore applications. the rig technology segment also works with shipyards in the fabrication of substructures for offshore drilling rigs. 7 instrumentation . the company instrumentation business provides drilling rig operators real time measurement and monitoring of critical parameters required to improve rig safety and efficiency. in 1999, the company introduced its rigsense wellsite information system, which combines leading hardware and software technologies into an integrated drilling rig package. access of drilling data is provided to offsite locations, enabling company personnel to monitor drilling operations from an office environment, through a secure link. systems are both sold and rented, and are comprised of hazardous area sensors placed throughout the rig to measure critical drilling parameters; all networked back to a central command station for review, recording and interpretation. the company offers unique business integration services to directly integrate information into business applications that improves accuracy and assists drilling contractors in managing their drilling business. reports on drilling activities and processes are now provided from the rig site as a part of the drillsuite business solution to allow contractors to streamline administration by eliminating manual entry of data, promotes accurate payroll processing and invoicing, and includes asset tracking and preventive maintenance management through its rigms solution. the real time information provided also allows the company to advance the drilling process using advanced drilling algorithms and electronic controls such as our wildcat auto drilling system for better execution of the well plan, enhanced rates of penetration, reduced program costs, and improved wellbore quality. complementing the company surface solutions is a portfolio of down-hole instrumentation ( dhi ) products for both straight-hole and directional markets. key advancements in this area include the introduction of the company time saving etotco electronic drift recorder, which serves as an electronic equivalent to the traditional mechanical drift tool that the company has offered since 1929. coiled tubing equipment . coiled tubing consists of flexible steel tubing manufactured in a continuous string and spooled on a reel. it can extend several thousand feet in length and is run in and out of the wellbore at a high rate of speed by a hydraulically operated coiled tubing unit. a coiled tubing unit is typically mounted on a truck, semi-trailer or skid (steel frames on which portable equipment is mounted to facilitate handling with cranes for offshore use) and consists of a hydraulically operated tubing reel or drum, an injector head which pushes or pulls the tubing in or out of the wellbore, and various power and control systems. coiled tubing is typically used with sophisticated pressure control equipment which permits the operator to perform workover operations on a live well. the rig technology segment manufactures and sells both coiled tubing units and the ancillary pressure control equipment used in these operations. through its acquisition of rolligon in late 2006, the company enhanced its portfolio by adding additional pressure pumping and coiled tubing equipment products. currently, most coiled tubing units are used in well remediation and completion applications. the company believes that advances in the manufacturing process of coiled tubing, tubing fatigue protection and the capability to manufacture larger diameter and increased wall thickness coiled tubing strings have resulted in increased uses and applications for coiled tubing products. for example, some well operators are now using coiled tubing in drilling applications such as slim hole re-entries of existing wells. the company engineered and manufactured the first coiled tubing units built specifically for coiled tubing drilling in 1996. generally, the rig technology segment supplies customers with the equipment and components necessary to use coiled tubing, which the customers typically purchase separately. the rig technology segment coiled tubing product line consists of coiled tubing units, coiled tubing pressure control equipment, pressure pumping equipment, snubbing units (which are units that force tubulars into a well when pressure is contained within the wellbore), nitrogen pumping equipment and cementing, stimulation, fracturing and blending equipment. wireline equipment . the company wireline products include wireline drum units, which consist of a spool or drum of wireline cable, mounted in a mobile vehicle or skid, which works in conjunction with a source of power (an engine mounted in the vehicle or within a separate power pack skid). the wireline drum unit is used to spool wireline cable into or out of a well, in order to perform surveys inside the well, sample fluids from the bottom of the well, retrieve or replace components from inside the well, or to perform other well remediation or survey operations. the wireline used may be slick line , which is conventional single-strand steel cable used to convey tools in or out of the well, or electric line , which contains an imbedded single-conductor or multi-conductor electrical line which permits communication between the surface and electronic instruments attached to the end of the wireline at the bottom of the well. wireline units are usually used in conjunction with a variety of other pressure control equipment which permit safe access into wells while they are flowing and under pressure at the surface. the company engineers and manufactures a broad range of pressure control equipment for wireline operations, including wireline blowout preventers, strippers, packers, lubricators and grease injection units. additionally, the company makes wireline rigging equipment such as mast trucks. turret mooring systems. the company acquired advanced production and loading plc ( apl ), in december 2010. apl, based in norway, designs and manufactures turret mooring systems and other products for fpsos and other offshore vessels and terminals. a turret mooring system consists of a geostatic part attached to the seabed and a rotating part integrated in the hull of the fpso, which are connected and allow the ship to weathervane (rotate) around the turret. 8 facilities. the company rig technology segment conducts manufacturing operations at major facilities in houston, galena park, sugar land, conroe, cedar park, anderson, fort worth and pampa, texas; duncan, oklahoma; orange, california; edmonton, canada; aberdeen, scotland; kristiansand, stavanger and arendal, norway; etten-leur and groot-ammers, the netherlands; carquefou, france; singapore; lanzhou and shanghai, china; dubai, uae; and ulsan, south korea. for a more detailed listing of significant facilities see item 2. properties . the rig technology segment maintains sales and service offices in most major oilfield markets, either directly or through agents. customers and competition. rig technology sells directly to drilling contractors, other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumping companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. the products of the rig technology segment are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or improved availability and delivery. the segment primary competitors are access oil tools; aker solutions as; american block; bomco; canrig (a division of nabors industries); cavins oil tools; cameron; dencon oil tools; forum oilfield technologies; general electric; hitec drilling products; hong hua; huisman; global energy services; lti (a division of rowan companies); m i electric; tesco corporation; stewart stevenson, inc.; huntings, ltd.; vanoil; parveen industries; soilmec; tts sense; omron; bentee; blohm; voss; liebher; seatrax; macgregor; rolls royce and weatherford international, inc. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting its rig technology segment are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of products, spare parts, and consumables, breadth of product line and price. petroleum services supplies the company provides a broad range of support equipment, spare parts, consumables and services through the petroleum services supplies segment. petroleum services supplies segment sells directly and provides a variety of tubular services, composite tubing, and coiled tubing to oil and gas producers, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, and tubular processors, manufacturers and distributors. these include inspection and reclamation services for drill pipe, casing, production tubing, sucker rods and line pipe at drilling and workover rig locations, at yards owned by its customers, at steel mills and processing facilities that manufacture tubular goods, and at facilities which it owns. the company also provides internal coating of tubular goods at several coating plants worldwide and through licensees in certain locations. additionally, the company designs, manufactures and sells high pressure fiberglass and composite tubulars for use in corrosive applications and coiled tubing for use in well servicing applications and connections for large diameter conductor pipe. the company customers rely on tubular inspection services to avoid failure of tubing, casing, flowlines, pipelines and drill pipe. such tubular failures are expensive and in some cases catastrophic. the company customers rely on internal coatings of tubular goods to prolong the useful lives of tubulars and to increase the volumetric throughput of in-service tubular goods. the company customers sometimes use fiberglass or composite tubulars in lieu of conventional steel tubulars, due to the corrosion-resistant properties of fiberglass and other composite materials. tubular inspection and coating services are used most frequently in operations in high-temperature, deep, corrosive oil and gas environments. in selecting a provider of tubular inspection and tubular coating services, oil and gas operators consider such factors as reputation, experience, technology of products offered, reliability and price. the petroleum services supplies segment also provides products and services that are used in the course of drilling oil and gas wells. the nov downhole business sells and rents bits, drilling motors and specialized downhole tools that are incorporated into the drill stem during drilling operations, and are also used during fishing, well intervention, re-entry, and well completion operations. the wellsite services business provides products and services such as drilling fluids, highly-engineered solids control equipment, waste handling and treatment, completion fluids, power generation equipment, and other ancillary well site equipment and services. wellsite services is also engaged in barium sulfate ( barite ) mining operations in the state of nevada. barite is an inert powder material used as the primary weighting agent in drilling fluids. additionally, efficient separation of drill cuttings enables the re-use of often costly drilling fluids. the pumps expendables business provides centrifugal, reciprocating, and progressing cavity pumps and pump expendables ( pumps expendables ) into the global oil and gas and industrial markets. solids control and waste management . the company is engaged in the provision of highly-engineered equipment, products and services which separate and manage drill cuttings produced by the drilling process ( solids control ). drill cuttings are usually contaminated with petroleum or drilling fluids, and must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. fluids services. the company acquired the spirit group of companies in may 2009 ( spirit ) and ambar in january 2010. both are engaged in the provision of drilling fluids, completion fluids and other related services. this division is also engaged in barite mining operations. drilling fluids are designed and used to maintain well bore stability while drilling, control downhole pressure, drill bit lubrication, and as a drill cuttings displacement medium. completion fluids are used to clean the well bore and stimulate production. 9 portable power. the acquisition of welch sales and service, inc. in 2008 placed wellsite services in the power generation and temperature control business. the portable power division provides rental equipment for use in the upstream oil and gas industry, refinery and petrochemical, construction, events, disaster relief and other industries. tubular coating . the company develops, manufactures and applies its proprietary tubular coatings, known as tube-kote coatings, to new and used tubulars. tubular coatings help prevent corrosion of tubulars by providing a tough plastic shield to isolate steel from corrosive oilfield fluids such as co 2 , h 2 and brine. delaying or preventing corrosion extends the life of existing tubulars, reduces the frequency of well remediation and reduces expensive interruptions in production. in addition, coatings are designed to increase the fluid flow rate through tubulars by decreasing or eliminating paraffin and scale build-up, which can reduce or block oil flow in producing wells. the smooth inner surfaces of coated tubulars often increase the fluid through-put on certain high-rate oil and gas wells by reducing friction and turbulence. the company reputation for supplying quality internal coatings is an important factor in its business, since the failure of coatings can lead to expensive production delays and premature tubular failure. in 2005, the company created a 60%-owned joint venture in china with the huabei petroleum administration bureau, which coats chinese produced drill pipe using the company proprietary coatings. in 2007, the joint venture opened a second coating plant in jiangyin city, china. in addition to the company tk coatings, it also has complementary corrosion control products and services including tk liners, tubowrap , and kc-ipc connections. tk liners are fiberglass-reinforced tubes which are inserted into steel line pipe. this safeguards the pipe against corrosion and extends the life of the pipeline. in conjunction with the thru-kote connection system customers can weld a sleeve for a continuous fiberglass lined pipeline. tubo-wrap is a high performance external coating that protects the pipe during installation and from corrosion once the pipeline is in place. kc-ipc connections use a modified american petroleum institute ( api ) coupling to create a gas-tight seal that prevents corrosion and turbulence in the critical connections of tubulars while protecting the internal plastic coating at the highly loaded contact points. tubular inspection. newly manufactured pipe sometimes contains serious defects that are not detected at the mill. in addition, pipe can be damaged in transit and during handling prior to use at the well site. as a result, exploration and production companies often have new tubulars inspected before they are placed in service to reduce the risk of tubular failures during drilling, completion, or production of oil and gas wells. used tubulars are inspected by the company to detect service-induced flaws after the tubulars are removed from operation. used drill pipe and used tubing inspection programs allow operators to replace defective lengths, thereby prolonging the life of the remaining pipe and saving the customer the cost of unnecessary tubular replacements and expenses related to tubular failures. tubular inspection services employ all major non-destructive inspection techniques, including electromagnetic, ultrasonic, magnetic flux leakage and gamma ray. these inspection services are provided both by mobile units which work at the wellhead as used tubing is removed from a well, and at fixed site tubular inspection locations. the company provides an ultrasonic inspection service for detecting potential fatigue cracks in the end area of used drill pipe, the portion of the pipe that traditionally has been the most difficult to inspect. tubular inspection facilities also offer a wide range of related services, such as api thread inspection, ring and plug gauging, and a complete line of reclamation services necessary to return tubulars to useful service, including tubular cleaning and straightening, hydrostatic testing and re-threading. in addition, the company applies hardbanding material to drill pipe, to enhance its wear characteristics and reduce downhole casing wear as a result of the drilling process. in 2002, the company introduced its proprietary line of hardbanding material, tcs 8000 . the company also cleans, straightens, inspects and coats sucker rods at 11 facilities throughout the western hemisphere. additionally, new sucker rods are inspected before they are placed into service, to avoid premature failure, which can cause the oil well operator to have to pull and replace the sucker rod. machining services. in 2005, the company acquired turner oilfield services and expanded our product offering into thread repair, tool joint rebuilding and sub manufacturing. since then the company has made strategic acquisitions of hendershot and mid-south and has expanded its machining services internally to develop a one-stop-shop concept for its drill pipe customers. thread repair services include rotary shouldered and premium connections. the company is licensed to perform thread repair services for api and proprietary connections. tool joint rebuilding is a unique process to restore worn drill pipe tool joints, drill collars and heavy weight drill pipe to the original specifications to extend the service life of those assets. the company manufactures downhole tools and is api licensed for this process in several locations. in november 2009, the company acquired south seas inspection (s) pte. ltd., ( ssi ) and certain assets of its brazilian affiliate. ssi provides a wide array of oilfield services including rig and derrick construction, derrick inspection and maintenance, drops surveys and load testing at the rig through the use of rope access technicians. this acquisition adds multiple new services and allows the company to grow this business by leveraging existing relationships and infrastructure. these operations are based out of singapore with branch offices in baku, azerbaijan and aktau, kazkhstan as well as a representative office in vietnam. the highly trained workforce is completely mobile and provides these services worldwide. 10 mill systems and sales. the company engineers and fabricates inspection equipment for steel mills, which it sells and rents. the equipment is used for quality control purposes to detect defects in the pipe during the high-speed manufacturing process. each piece of mill inspection equipment is designed to customer specifications and is installed and serviced by the company. drill pipe products. the company manufactures and sells a variety of drill stem products used for the drilling of oil and gas wells. the principal products sold by drill pipe products are: (i) drill pipe, (ii) drill collars and heavyweight drill pipe and (iii) drill stem accessories including tool joints. drill pipe is the principal tool, other than the rig, required for the drilling of an oil or gas well. its primary purpose is to connect the above-surface drilling rig to the drill bit. a drilling rig will typically have an inventory of 10,000 to 30,000 feet of drill pipe depending on the size and service requirements of the rig. joints of drill pipe are connected to each other with a welded-on tool joint to form what is commonly referred to as the drill string or drill stem. when a drilling rig is operating, motors mounted on the rig rotate the drill pipe and drill bit. in addition to connecting the drilling rig to the drill bit, drill pipe provides a mechanism to steer the drill bit and serves as a conduit for drilling fluids and cuttings. drill pipe is a capital good that can be used for the drilling of multiple wells. once a well is completed, the drill pipe may be used again and again to drill other wells until the drill pipe becomes damaged or wears out. in recent years, the depth and complexity of the wells customers drill, as well as the specifications and requirements of the drill pipe they purchase, have substantially increased. a majority of the drill pipe sold is required to meet specifications exceeding minimum api standards. the company offers a broad line of premium drilling products designed for the offshore, international and domestic drilling markets. the company premium drilling products include its proprietary lines of xt and turbotorque tm connections and large diameter drill pipe that delivers hydraulic performance superior to standard sizes. drill collars are used in the drilling process to place weight on the drill bit for better control and penetration. drill collars are located directly above the drill bit and are manufactured from a solid steel bar to provide necessary weight. heavyweight drill pipe is a thick-walled seamless tubular product that is less rigid than a drill collar. heavyweight drill pipe provides a gradual transition between the heavier drill collar and the lighter drill pipe. the company also provides subs, pup joints (short and odd-sized tubular products) and other drill stem accessories. these products all perform special functions within the drill string as part of the drilling process. nov intelliserv. nov intelliserv is a joint venture between the company and schlumberger, ltd. in which the company holds a 55% interest and maintains operational control. nov intelliserv provides wellbore data transmission services that enable high-speed communication up and down the drill string throughout drilling and completion operations that are undertaken during the construction of oil and gas wells. nov intelliserv core product, the intelliserv broadband network , was commercialized in february 2006 and incorporates various proprietary mechanical and electrical components into the company premium drilling tubulars to enable data transmission rates that are currently up to 20,000 times faster than mud pulse, the current industry standard. the intelliserv broadband network also permits virtually unlimited real-time actuation of drilling tools and sensors at the bottom of the drill string, a process that conventionally requires the time consuming return of tools to the surface. nov intelliserv offers its products and services on a rental basis to oil and gas operators. voest-alpine tubulars ( vat ) . vat is a joint venture between the company and the austrian based voestalpine group. the company has a 50.01% investment in the joint venture which is located in kindberg, austria. vat owns a tubular mill with an annual capacity of approximately 380,000 metric tons and is the primary supplier of green tubes for our u.s. based production. in addition to producing green tubes, vat produces seamless tubular products for the octg market and non-octg products used in the automotive, petrochemical, construction, mining, tunneling and transportation industries. fiberglass composite tubulars. when compared to conventional carbon steel and even corrosion-resistant alloys, resin-impregnated fiberglass and other modern plastic composites often exhibit superior resistance to corrosion. some producers manage the corrosive fluids sometimes found in oil and gas fields by utilizing composite or fiberglass tubing, casing and line pipe in the operations of their fields. in 1997, the company acquired fiber glass systems, a leading provider of high pressure fiberglass tubulars used in oilfield applications, to further serve the tubular corrosion prevention needs of its customers. fiber glass systems has manufactured fiberglass pipe since 1968 under the name star , and was the first manufacturer of high-pressure fiberglass pipe to be licensed by the api in 1992. through acquisitions and investments in technologies, the company has extended its fiberglass and composite tubing offering into industrial and marine applications, in addition to its oilfield market. coiled tubing. coiled tubing provides a number of significant functional advantages over the principal alternatives of conventional drill pipe and workover pipe. coiled tubing allows faster tripping, since the coiled tubing can be reeled quickly on and off a drum and in and out of a wellbore. in addition, the small size of the coiled tubing unit compared to an average workover rig or drilling rig reduces preparation time at the well site. coiled tubing permits a variety of workover and other operations to be performed without having to pull the existing production tubing from the well and allows ease of operation in horizontal or highly deviated wells. thus, 11 operations using coiled tubing can be performed much more quickly and, in many instances, at a significantly lower cost. finally, use of coiled tubing generally allows continuous production of the well, eliminating the need to temporarily stop the flow of hydrocarbons. as a result, the economics of a workover are improved because the well can continue to produce hydrocarbons and thus produce revenues while the well treatments are occurring. continuous production also reduces the risk of formation damage which can occur when the flow of fluids is stopped or isolated. under normal operating conditions, the coiled tubing string must be replaced every three to four months. the company designs, manufactures, and sells coiled tubing under the quality tubing brand name at its mill in houston, texas. nov downhole. the nov downhole business unit combines a wide array of drilling and intervention tool product lines with the drill bit, coring services, borehole enlargement and drilling dynamics/drilling optimization service lines previously consolidated within the reedhycalog business unit of grant prideco. the broad spectrum of bottom hole assembly ( bha ) components offered by nov downhole is unique within the industry and is the result of the company strategic consolidation of several key acquisitions, including: nql energy services, inc., a leading manufacturer and provider of downhole drilling tools; gammaloy holdings, l.p., a manufacturer and provider of non-magnetic drill collars and other related products; and the reedhycalog, corion, and andergauge business units of grant prideco, a global leader in the design, manufacture and provision of drill bits, variable gauge stabilizers, hydraulically and mechanically actuated under-reamers, specialty coring services and downhole vibration mitigation services. nov downhole manufactures fixed cutter and roller cone drill bits and services its customer base through a technical sales and marketing network in virtually every significant oil and gas producing region of the world. it provides fixed-cutter bit technology under various brand names including trex , raptor , systemmatched and rotary steerable. one of its most significant fixed cutter drill bit innovations is the trex , raptor , and duraforce family of cutter technologies which significantly increase abrasion resistance (wear life) without sacrificing impact resistance (toughness). this technology provides a diamond surface that maintains a sharp, low-wear cutting edge that produces drilling results that exceed conventional standards for polycrystalline diamond ( pdc ) bit performance. the company produces roller-cone bits for a wide variety of oil and gas drilling applications. roller-cone bits consist of three rotating cones that have cutting teeth, which penetrate the formation through a crushing action as the cones rotate in conjunction with the rotation of the drill pipe. this cutting mechanism, while less efficient than fixed-cutter bits, is more versatile in harder formations, or where the geology is changing. we manufacture roller-cone bits with milled teeth and with tungsten carbide insert teeth, which have a longer life in harder formations. we also manufacture a unique patented line of bits using a powder-metal forging technology sold under the brand tuffcutter . we market our roller-cone products and technology globally under various brand names including rockforce , titan and tuffcutter . nov downhole designs, manufacturers and services a wide array of downhole motors used in straight hole, directional, slim hole, and coiled tubing drilling applications. these motors are sold or leased under the nov downhole brand name. the company also maintains a wide variety of motor power sections, including its proprietary powerplus and hemidril rotors and stators which it incorporates into its own motors as well as sells to third parties. downhole drilling motors utilize hydraulic horsepower from the drilling fluid pumped down the drill stem to develop torque at the bit. motors are capable of achieving higher rotary velocities than can generally be achieved using conventional surface rotary equipment. motors are often used in conjunction with high speed pdc bits to improve rates of penetration. nov downhole also manufactures and sells drilling jars and fishing tools. drilling jars are placed in the drill string, where they can be used to generate a sudden, jarring motion to free the drill string should it become stuck in the wellbore during the drilling process. this jarring motion is generated using hydraulic and/or mechanical force provided at the surface. in the event that a portion of the drill string becomes stuck and cannot be jarred loose, fishing tools are run into the wellbore on the end of the drill string to retrieve the portion that is stuck. through its coring services business line, nov downhole offers coring solutions that enable the extraction of actual rock samples from a drilled well bore and allow geologists to examine the formations at the surface. one of the coring services utilized is the company unique corion express system which allows the customer to drill and core a well without tripping pipe. corion express utilizes wireline retrievable drilling and coring elements which allow the system to transform from a drilling assembly to a coring assembly and also to wireline retrieve the geological core. this capability enables customers to save significant time and expense during the drilling and coring process. nov downhole offers a wide variety of industry leading technologies to enable customers to enlarge the diameter of a drilled hole below a restriction (typically a casing string) via its borehole enlargement business line. borehole enlargement services are typically utilized in deep water drilling where customers wish to maximize the size of each successive casing string in order to preserve a relatively large completion hole size through which to produce hydrocarbons from the reservoir. borehole enlargement is also employed where customers wish to reduce the fluid velocity and pressure within the well-bore annulus to reduce the risk of formation 12 erosion or accidental fracture. borehole enlargement provides bi-centered drill bits, expandable reamers (marketed under the anderreamer brand name) and associated equipment along with well-site service technicians who deliver 24 hour support during hole enlargement operations. nov downhole offers drilling optimization services via its advanced drilling solutions ( ads ) business line. ads services incorporate various downhole vibration measurement and mitigation tools along with dedicated, highly trained personnel who interpret such data and provide drilling parameter guidance intended to improve drilling efficiency and reduce drilling risk. pumps expendables . the company pumps expendables business designs, manufactures, and sells pumps that are used in oil and gas drilling operations, well service operations, production applications, as well as industrial applications. these pumps include reciprocating positive displacement and centrifugal pumps. high pressure mud pumps are sold within the rig technology segment. these pumps are sold as individual units and unitized packages with drivers, controls and piping. the company also manufactures fluid end expendables (liners, valves, pistons, and plungers), fluid end modules and a complete line of dies and inserts for pipe handling. the company offers popular industry brand names like wheatley, gaso, and omega reciprocating pumps, acquired in 2000; halco centrifugal pumps, acquired in 2002; petroleum expendable products ( pep ), acquired in 1997; and phoenix energy products, acquired in 1998. the company also manufactures a line of commodity and high end valves, chokes, and flow line equipment used in both production and drilling applications. additionally these products are used in the fabrication of choke and kill standpipe, cement, and production manifolds. the company manufactures its pump products in houston, odessa and marble falls, texas; tulsa and mcalester, oklahoma; scott, louisiana; newcastle, england; dehradun, india and buenos aires, argentina. xl systems. the company xl systems product line offers the customer an integrated package of large-bore tubular products and services for offshore wells. this product line includes the company proprietary line of wedge thread marine connections on large-bore tubulars and related engineering and design services. the company provides this product line for drive pipe, jet strings and conductor casing. the company also offers weld-on connections and service personnel in connection with the installation of these products. in early 2007, the company completed development of its new high-strength viper weld-on connector that it believes will permit the company to penetrate traditional markets that do not require the enhanced performance of its proprietary wedge-thread design. customers and competition. customers for the petroleum services supplies tubular services include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield equipment and product distributors and manufacturers, oilfield service companies, steel mills, and other industrial companies. the company competitors include, among others, ameron international corp; edo corporation; shawcor ltd.; schlumberger, ltd.; frank international; inc.; baker hughes incorporated; halliburton company; weatherford international ltd.; patterson tubular services; vallourec mannesmann; and precision tube (a division of tenaris). in addition, the company competes with a number of smaller regional competitors in tubular inspection. certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the company operates have adopted policies or regulations that may give local nationals in these countries certain competitive advantages. within the company corrosion control products, certain substitutes such as non-metallic tubulars, inhibitors, corrosion resistant alloys, cathodic protection systems, and non-metallic liner systems also compete with the company products. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting this business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of products, spare parts, and consumables, breadth of product line and price. the primary customers for drilling services offered by the petroleum services supplies segment include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil companies. competitors in drilling services include schlumberger, ltd. ( swaco ); baker hughes incorporated; halliburton company; derrick manufacturing corp.; fluid systems; oil tools pte. ltd; peak energy services, ltd.; varel; united diamond; roper; robbins myers; southwest oilfield products; and a number of regional competitors. the petroleum services supplies segment sells drilling services into highly competitive markets. management believes that on-site service is becoming an increasingly important competitive element in this market, and that the principal competitive factors affecting the business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, product availability and technology, breadth of product line and price. 13 distribution services the distribution services segment is a market leader in the provision of supply chain management services to drilling contractors and exploration and production companies around the world. through its network of over 200 distribution service center locations worldwide, this segment stocks and sells a large line of oilfield products including consumable maintenance, repair and operating supplies, valves, fittings, flanges and spare parts that are needed throughout the drilling, completion and production process. the supplies and equipment stocked by our distribution service centers are customized to meet a wide variety of customer demands. distribution supply chain solutions for customers include outsourcing the functions of procurement, inventory warehouse management, logistics, business process, and performance metrics reporting. in this solution offering, we leverage the flexible infrastructure of our sap erp system to streamline the acquisition process from requisition to procurement to payment, by digitally managing approval routing workflow, and by providing robust reporting functionality. nov rigstore is a cutting-edge industry value offering by distribution services whereby we provide the installation, staffing and management of supply stores on offshore drilling rigs. with the nov rigstore business model, distribution services installs its own erp system onboard in order to access and leverage distribution global inventory, hundreds of support locations, and thousands of vendors across multiple product lines. this business model relieves the average offshore drilling rig balance sheet by providing improved accounting of these expense items, lower capital costs, extended payment on part of the driller until the item is actually issued from the onboard supply store, and removed risk of ownership from the customer. whether it is a smaller, new drilling contractor or larger, established drilling company the benefits of effective supply chain management and reduced total cost of ownership are substantial. distribution services also provides unique one-stop-shop value propositions in the exploration and production market in key areas of artificial lift, measurement controls, valving actuation, and flow optimization. through focused effort, we have built expertise in providing applications engineering, systems parts integration, optimization solutions, and after-sales service support in the aforementioned areas. distribution services is diversifying by adding new artificial lift technologies, as well as measurement controls competencies to become the biggest global provider of equipment and services in the exploration and production space. approximately 78% of distribution services segment sales in 2010 were in the united states and canada. the remainder comes from key international markets in latin america, the north sea, middle east, africa and the far east. the distribution services segment has now expanded into oilfields in over 20 countries. approximately 25% of distribution services revenues are from the resale of goods manufactured by other segments within the company and the balance are sales of goods manufactured by third parties. distribution services works to strategically increase revenue and enhance alliances with customers by continuous expansion of product and service solutions and creation of differentiating value propositions. additionally the segment leverages its extensive purchasing power to reduce the cost of the goods. distribution services is strategically expanding its sourcing network into low cost countries globally. customers and competition. the primary customers for distribution services include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil companies. competitors in distribution services include wilson supply (a division of schlumberger, ltd.), ce franklin, mcjunkin red man, and a number of regional competitors. 14 2010 acquisitions and other investments in 2010, the company made the following acquisitions and outside investments: acquisition form operating segment date of transaction ambar lone star fluid services, llc asset petroleum services supplies january 2010 visible assets, inc. stock petroleum services supplies april 2010 sigma offshore, ltd. stock rig technology april 2010 paradigm lift technologies, llc asset distribution services april 2010 kva, ltd. stock petroleum services supplies june 2010 power leasing division of tarpon energy services, ltd. asset petroleum services supplies september 2010 group kz, llp stock distribution services october 2010 big red tubulars, ltd. stock petroleum services supplies november 2010 advanced production and loading plc stock rig technology december 2010 greystone technologies pty ltd. stock petroleum services supplies december 2010 welltronics mwd llc asset rig technology december 2010 permian fabrication asset petroleum services supplies december 2010 the company paid an aggregate purchase price of $556 million, net of cash acquired for acquisitions and outside investments in 2010. seasonal nature of the company business historically, the level of some of the company segments have followed seasonal trends to some degree. in general the rig technology segment has not experienced significant seasonal fluctuation although orders for new equipment may be modestly affected by holiday schedules. there can be no guarantee that seasonal effects will not influence future sales in this segment. in canada, the petroleum services supplies segment has typically realized high first quarter activity levels, as operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling and production areas. in past years, certain canadian businesses within petroleum services supplies and distribution services have declined during the second quarter due to warming weather conditions which resulted in thawing, softer ground, difficulty accessing drill sites, and road bans that curtailed drilling activity ( canadian breakup ). however, these segments have typically rebounded in the third and fourth quarter. petroleum services supplies activity in both the u.s. and canada sometimes increases during the third quarter and then peaks in the fourth quarter as operators spend the remaining drilling and/or production capital budgets for that year. petroleum services supplies revenues in the rocky mountain region sometimes decline in the late fourth quarter or early first quarter due to harsh winter weather. the segment fiberglass and composite tubulars business in china has typically declined in the first quarter due to the impact of weather on manufacturing and installation operations, and due to business slowdowns associated with the chinese new year. the company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue. however, there can be no guarantee that spending by the company customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past or that spending by other customers will remain the same as in prior years. marketing distribution network substantially all of our rig technology capital equipment and spare parts sales, and a large portion of our smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through our direct sales force and distribution service centers. sales to foreign oil companies are often made with or through agent or representative arrangements. products within petroleum service supplies are rented and sold worldwide through our own sales force and through commissioned representatives. distribution services sales are made directly through our network of distribution service centers. the rig technology segment customers include drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumpers, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. rig technology purchases can represent significant capital expenditures, and are often sold as part of a rig fabrication or major rig refurbishment package. sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the company bids jointly with other related product and services providers, such as rig fabrication yards and rig design firms. 15 the petroleum services supplies segment customers for tubular services include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, oilfield equipment and product distributors and manufacturers, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield service companies, pressure pumpers, pipeline operators, pipe mills, manufacturers and processors, and other industrial companies. certain tubular inspection and tubular coating products and services often are incorporated as a part of a tubular package sold by tubular supply stores to end users. the company primarily has direct operations in the international marketplace, but operates through agents in certain markets. the petroleum services supplies segment customers for drilling services are predominantly major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, providers of drilling fluids, and other oilfield service companies. this segment operates sales and distribution facilities at strategic locations worldwide to service areas with high drilling activity. strategically located service and engineering facilities provide specialty repair and maintenance services to customers. sales of capital equipment are sometimes made through rig fabricators, and often are bid as part of a rig fabrication package or rig refurbishment package. sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the company bids jointly with other related service providers. distribution services sales are made through our network of distribution service centers. customers for our products and services include drilling and other service contractors, exploration and production companies, supply companies and nationally owned or controlled drilling and production companies. the company foreign operations, which include significant operations in canada, europe, the far east, the middle east, africa and latin america, are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including foreign currency exchange risks and uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the company operates have adopted policies (or are subject to governmental policies) giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of such policies, the company relies on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationship between the company and such government-owned petroleum companies. although the company has not experienced any material problems in foreign countries arising from nationalistic policies, political instability, economic instability or currency restrictions, there can be no assurance that such a problem will not arise in the future. as discussed in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , the venezuelan government devalued its currency in 2010. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding geographic revenue information. research and new product development and intellectual property the company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights. as of december 31, 2010, the company held a substantial number of united states patents and had several patent applications pending. expiration dates of such patents range from 2011 to 2030. as of this date, the company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to inventions covered by the united states patents. additionally, the company maintains a substantial number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets. although the company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. the company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenues from new products. 16 engineering and manufacturing the manufacturing processes for the company products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components and testing. most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel, and the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. primary manufacturing facilities for the rig technology segment are located in houston, galena park, sugar land, conroe, cedar park, anderson, fort worth and pampa, texas; duncan, oklahoma; orange, california; edmonton, canada; aberdeen, scotland; kristiansand, stavanger and arendal, norway; etten-leur and groot-ammers, the netherlands; carquefou, france; singapore; lanzhou and shanghai, china; dubai, uae; and ulsan, south korea. the petroleum services supplies segment manufactures or assembles the equipment and products which it rents and sells to customers, and which it uses in providing services. downhole tools are manufactured at facilities in houston, texas; manchester, england; dubai, uae; and singapore. drill bits are manufactured at facilities in conroe, texas; stonehouse, u.k; and jurong, singapore. drill stem technology development and drill pipe are manufactured at facilities in navasota, texas; veracruz, mexico; jurong, singapore; and baimi town, jiangyan and jiangsu, china. solids control equipment and screens are manufactured at facilities in houston and conroe, texas; new iberia, louisiana; aberdeen, scotland; trinidad; shah alum and puncak alam, malaysia; and macae, brazil. pumps are manufactured at facilities in houston, odessa and marble falls, texas; mcalester and tulsa, oklahoma; manchester and newcastle, england; melbourne, australia; and buenos aires, argentina. nov intelliserv manufactures or assembles equipment in provo, utah. the company manufactures tubular inspection equipment and tools at its houston, texas facility for resale, and renovates and repairs equipment at its manufacturing facilities in houston, texas; celle, germany; singapore; and aberdeen, scotland. fiberglass and composite tubulars and fittings are manufactured at facilities in san antonio, texas; little rock, arkansas; tulsa, oklahoma; wichita, kansas; and harbin and suzhou, china, while tubular coatings are manufactured in its houston, texas facility, or through restricted sale agreements with third party manufacturers. certain of the company manufacturing facilities and certain of the company products have various certifications, including, iso 9001, api, apex and asme. raw materials the company believes that materials and components used in its servicing and manufacturing operations and purchased for sales are generally available from multiple sources. the prices paid by the company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. in 2006 and 2007, the price for mild steel and standard grades stabilized while specialty alloy prices continued to rise driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. however, toward the end of 2007, the company began to see price escalations in all grades of steel that continued into 2008. during 2008, steel prices stabilized and the company began to experience some declines in steel prices late in 2008 and throughout 2009. the company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to and adjusting prices on the products it sells. furthermore, the company continued to expand its supply base in 2006, 2007 and 2008 throughout the world to address its customers needs. in 2010, the company witnessed flat to slight increases in steel pricing. the company anticipates higher steel pricing across the board in 2011. higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. backlog the company monitors its backlog of orders within its rig technology segment to guide its planning. backlog includes orders greater than $250,000 for most items and orders for wireline units in excess of $75,000, and which require more than three months to manufacture and deliver. backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. most require reimbursement to the company for costs incurred in such an event. there can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the company will earn a profit on backlog work. our backlog for equipment at december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $5.0 billion, $6.4 billion and $11.1 billion, respectively. employees at december 31, 2010, the company had a total of 41,027 employees, of which 5,443 were temporary employees. approximately 117 employees in the company fiberglass tubulars plant in little rock, arkansas, and 152 employees of the company downhole tools product line in houston and conroe, texas, are subject to collective bargaining agreements. additionally, certain of the company employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. 17 item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile . the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of production by non-opec countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas; level of production from known reserves; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity; national government political requirements; development of alternate energy sources; and environmental regulations. if there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the company will decline. volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products. oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1972. in general, oil prices approximated $18-$22 per barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have generally ranged between $25-$100 per barrel since 2000. in 2008, oil prices were extremely volatile oil prices rose to $147 per barrel in july 2008 only to fall into the $35-$45 per barrel range in december 2008. in 2009, oil prices continued to be volatile, rising to the $70 per barrel range during the year. in 2010 oil prices continued rising to finish the year well above $80 per barrel. domestic spot gas prices generally ranged between $1.80-$2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999 then experienced spikes into the $10 range in 2001 and 2003. prices generally ranged between $4.50-$12.00 per mmbtu during 2005-2008. in 2009 and 2010, spot gas prices generally stabilized, dropping into the $3 per mmbtu range during 2009 before rising slightly in 2010 to finish the year just under $4 per mmbtu. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could reduce demand for our products. 18 worldwide financial and credit crisis could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. events in 2008 and 2009 constrained credit markets and sparked a serious global banking crisis. the slowdown in worldwide economic activity caused by the global recession reduced demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, many of our customers access the credit markets to finance their oil and natural gas drilling activity. if the recent crisis and recession reduce the availability of credit to our customers, they may reduce their drilling and production expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for our products and services. any such reduction in spending by our customers could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment. as of december 31, 2010, we had a backlog of approximately $5.0 billion of drilling equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by our rig technology segment. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties: our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this drilling equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; and our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control. the company existing contracts for rig equipment generally carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and do not allow customers to cancel projects for convenience. however, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and earnings: price changes; new product and technology introductions; and improvements in availability and delivery. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. competition in our industry could lead to lower revenues and earnings. we have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy. we have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through acquisitions and investment in internal growth. we anticipate that we will continue to pursue an aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the company or operate any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing 19 on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue. we have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. we cannot assure that we will realize earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors expectations. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future: fluctuations in the oil and gas industry; competition; the ability to service the debt obligations of the company; the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices; the ability to manage and control operating costs of the company; fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the united states and abroad; and the ability to protect our intellectual property rights. there are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability, currency restrictions, and trade and economic sanctions. approximately 66% of our revenues in 2010 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in canada, europe, the middle east, africa, southeast asia, latin america and other international markets. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies. our operations outside the united states could also expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. the u.s. department of justice ( doj ), the u.s. securities and exchange commission and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the foreign corrupt practices act and other federal statutes. under trading sanctions laws, the doj may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. if any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. we have received federal grand jury subpoenas and subsequent inquiries from governmental agencies requesting records related to our compliance with export trade laws and regulations. we have cooperated fully with agents from the department of justice, the bureau of industry and security, the office of foreign assets control, and u.s. immigration and customs enforcement in responding to the inquiries. we have also cooperated with an informal inquiry from the securities and exchange commission in connection with the inquiries previously made by the aforementioned federal agencies. we have conducted our own internal review of this matter. at the conclusion of our internal review in the fourth quarter of 2009, we identified possible areas of concern and discussed these areas of concern with the relevant agencies. we are currently negotiating a potential resolution with the agencies involved related to these matters. we currently anticipate that any administrative fine or penalty agreed to as part of a resolution would be within established accruals, and would not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. to the extent a resolution is not negotiated as anticipated, we cannot predict the timing or effect that any resulting government actions may have on our financial position or results of operations. 20 the results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including, but not limited to, the canadian dollar, the euro, the british pound sterling, the norwegian krone and the south korean won. approximately 66% of our 2010 revenue was derived from sales outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. thus, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income. because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net exposure to currency exchange fluctuations. we had forward contracts with a notional amount of $1,976 million (with a fair value of $24 million) as of december 31, 2010 to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are also subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results. an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings. the company has approximately $5.8 billion of goodwill and $0.6 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2010. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant reduction in worldwide well remediation activity; a significant reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity; resulting in an increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. see additional discussion on goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets in critical accounting estimates of item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or environmental damage and suspension of operations. 21 our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. the u.s. congress is currently working on legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the united states, which includes establishing cap-and-trade programs. in addition to the pending climate legislation, the u.s. environmental protection agency has proposed regulations that would require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities, and may issue final rules this year. these changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. the company had revenues of 17% of total revenue from one of its customers for the year ended december 31, 2010. the loss of this customer (samsung heavy industries) or a significant reduction in its purchases could adversely affect our future revenues and earnings. the recent moratorium on deepwater drilling in the u.s. gulf of mexico and its consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business. a moratorium on deepwater drilling in the u.s. gulf of mexico was enacted during the second quarter of 2010 following the macondo well blowout and oil spill. even though such moratorium has been lifted, any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas drilling and production activity as a result of such moratorium or permitting issues in this area could result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. 22 glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds ( pdcs ). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. 23 cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. fpso a floating production, storage and offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. hydraulic fracturing the process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1. in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. 24 kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four- or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four- or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. compare break out. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment equipment used in: 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. 25 riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shaker see shale shaker shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. 26 sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. tiebacks (subsea) a series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. wellhead the termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , the venezuelan government devalued its currency in 2010. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding geographic revenue information. research and new product development and intellectual property the company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights. as of december 31, 2010, the company held a substantial number of united states patents and had several patent applications pending. expiration dates of such patents range from 2011 to 2030. as of this date, the company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to inventions covered by the united states patents. additionally, the company maintains a substantial number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets. although the company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. the company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenues from new products. 16 engineering and manufacturing the manufacturing processes for the company products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components and testing. most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel, and the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. primary manufacturing facilities for the rig technology segment are located in houston, galena park, sugar land, conroe, cedar park, anderson, fort worth and pampa, texas; duncan, oklahoma; orange, california; edmonton, canada; aberdeen, scotland; kristiansand, stavanger and arendal, norway; etten-leur and groot-ammers, the netherlands; carquefou, france; singapore; lanzhou and shanghai, china; dubai, uae; and ulsan, south korea. the petroleum services supplies segment manufactures or assembles the equipment and products which it rents and sells to customers, and which it uses in providing services. downhole tools are manufactured at facilities in houston, texas; manchester, england; dubai, uae; and singapore. drill bits are manufactured at facilities in conroe, texas; stonehouse, u.k; and jurong, singapore. drill stem technology development and drill pipe are manufactured at facilities in navasota, texas; veracruz, mexico; jurong, singapore; and baimi town, jiangyan and jiangsu, china. solids control equipment and screens are manufactured at facilities in houston and conroe, texas; new iberia, louisiana; aberdeen, scotland; trinidad; shah alum and puncak alam, malaysia; and macae, brazil. pumps are manufactured at facilities in houston, odessa and marble falls, texas; mcalester and tulsa, oklahoma; manchester and newcastle, england; melbourne, australia; and buenos aires, argentina. nov intelliserv manufactures or assembles equipment in provo, utah. the company manufactures tubular inspection equipment and tools at its houston, texas facility for resale, and renovates and repairs equipment at its manufacturing facilities in houston, texas; celle, germany; singapore; and aberdeen, scotland. fiberglass and composite tubulars and fittings are manufactured at facilities in san antonio, texas; little rock, arkansas; tulsa, oklahoma; wichita, kansas; and harbin and suzhou, china, while tubular coatings are manufactured in its houston, texas facility, or through restricted sale agreements with third party manufacturers. certain of the company manufacturing facilities and certain of the company products have various certifications, including, iso 9001, api, apex and asme. raw materials the company believes that materials and components used in its servicing and manufacturing operations and purchased for sales are generally available from multiple sources. the prices paid by the company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. in 2006 and 2007, the price for mild steel and standard grades stabilized while specialty alloy prices continued to rise driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. however, toward the end of 2007, the company began to see price escalations in all grades of steel that continued into 2008. during 2008, steel prices stabilized and the company began to experience some declines in steel prices late in 2008 and throughout 2009. the company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to and adjusting prices on the products it sells. furthermore, the company continued to expand its supply base in 2006, 2007 and 2008 throughout the world to address its customers needs. in 2010, the company witnessed flat to slight increases in steel pricing. the company anticipates higher steel pricing across the board in 2011. higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. backlog the company monitors its backlog of orders within its rig technology segment to guide its planning. backlog includes orders greater than $250,000 for most items and orders for wireline units in excess of $75,000, and which require more than three months to manufacture and deliver. backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. most require reimbursement to the company for costs incurred in such an event. there can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the company will earn a profit on backlog work. our backlog for equipment at december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $5.0 billion, $6.4 billion and $11.1 billion, respectively. employees at december 31, 2010, the company had a total of 41,027 employees, of which 5,443 were temporary employees. approximately 117 employees in the company fiberglass tubulars plant in little rock, arkansas, and 152 employees of the company downhole tools product line in houston and conroe, texas, are subject to collective bargaining agreements. additionally, certain of the company employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. 17 item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile . the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of production by non-opec countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas; level of production from known reserves; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity; national government political requirements; development of alternate energy sources; and environmental regulations. if there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the company will decline. volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products. oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1972. in general, oil prices approximated $18-$22 per barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have generally ranged between $25-$100 per barrel since 2000. in 2008, oil prices were extremely volatile oil prices rose to $147 per barrel in july 2008 only to fall into the $35-$45 per barrel range in december 2008. in 2009, oil prices continued to be volatile, rising to the $70 per barrel range during the year. in 2010 oil prices continued rising to finish the year well above $80 per barrel. domestic spot gas prices generally ranged between $1.80-$2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999 then experienced spikes into the $10 range in 2001 and 2003. prices generally ranged between $4.50-$12.00 per mmbtu during 2005-2008. in 2009 and 2010, spot gas prices generally stabilized, dropping into the $3 per mmbtu range during 2009 before rising slightly in 2010 to finish the year just under $4 per mmbtu. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could reduce demand for our products. 18 worldwide financial and credit crisis could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. events in 2008 and 2009 constrained credit markets and sparked a serious global banking crisis. the slowdown in worldwide economic activity caused by the global recession reduced demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, many of our customers access the credit markets to finance their oil and natural gas drilling activity. if the recent crisis and recession reduce the availability of credit to our customers, they may reduce their drilling and production expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for our products and services. any such reduction in spending by our customers could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment. as of december 31, 2010, we had a backlog of approximately $5.0 billion of drilling equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by our rig technology segment. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties: our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this drilling equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; and our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control. the company existing contracts for rig equipment generally carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and do not allow customers to cancel projects for convenience. however, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and earnings: price changes; new product and technology introductions; and improvements in availability and delivery. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. competition in our industry could lead to lower revenues and earnings. we have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy. we have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through acquisitions and investment in internal growth. we anticipate that we will continue to pursue an aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the company or operate any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing 19 on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue. we have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. we cannot assure that we will realize earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors expectations. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future: fluctuations in the oil and gas industry; competition; the ability to service the debt obligations of the company; the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices; the ability to manage and control operating costs of the company; fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the united states and abroad; and the ability to protect our intellectual property rights. there are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability, currency restrictions, and trade and economic sanctions. approximately 66% of our revenues in 2010 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in canada, europe, the middle east, africa, southeast asia, latin america and other international markets. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies. our operations outside the united states could also expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. the u.s. department of justice ( doj ), the u.s. securities and exchange commission and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the foreign corrupt practices act and other federal statutes. under trading sanctions laws, the doj may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. if any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. we have received federal grand jury subpoenas and subsequent inquiries from governmental agencies requesting records related to our compliance with export trade laws and regulations. we have cooperated fully with agents from the department of justice, the bureau of industry and security, the office of foreign assets control, and u.s. immigration and customs enforcement in responding to the inquiries. we have also cooperated with an informal inquiry from the securities and exchange commission in connection with the inquiries previously made by the aforementioned federal agencies. we have conducted our own internal review of this matter. at the conclusion of our internal review in the fourth quarter of 2009, we identified possible areas of concern and discussed these areas of concern with the relevant agencies. we are currently negotiating a potential resolution with the agencies involved related to these matters. we currently anticipate that any administrative fine or penalty agreed to as part of a resolution would be within established accruals, and would not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. to the extent a resolution is not negotiated as anticipated, we cannot predict the timing or effect that any resulting government actions may have on our financial position or results of operations. 20 the results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including, but not limited to, the canadian dollar, the euro, the british pound sterling, the norwegian krone and the south korean won. approximately 66% of our 2010 revenue was derived from sales outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. thus, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income. because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net exposure to currency exchange fluctuations. we had forward contracts with a notional amount of $1,976 million (with a fair value of $24 million) as of december 31, 2010 to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are also subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results. an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings. the company has approximately $5.8 billion of goodwill and $0.6 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2010. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant reduction in worldwide well remediation activity; a significant reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity; resulting in an increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. see additional discussion on goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets in critical accounting estimates of item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or environmental damage and suspension of operations. 21 our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. the u.s. congress is currently working on legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the united states, which includes establishing cap-and-trade programs. in addition to the pending climate legislation, the u.s. environmental protection agency has proposed regulations that would require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities, and may issue final rules this year. these changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. the company had revenues of 17% of total revenue from one of its customers for the year ended december 31, 2010. the loss of this customer (samsung heavy industries) or a significant reduction in its purchases could adversely affect our future revenues and earnings. the recent moratorium on deepwater drilling in the u.s. gulf of mexico and its consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business. a moratorium on deepwater drilling in the u.s. gulf of mexico was enacted during the second quarter of 2010 following the macondo well blowout and oil spill. even though such moratorium has been lifted, any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas drilling and production activity as a result of such moratorium or permitting issues in this area could result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. 22 glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds ( pdcs ). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. 23 cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. fpso a floating production, storage and offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. hydraulic fracturing the process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1. in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. 24 kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four- or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four- or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. compare break out. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment equipment used in: 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. 25 riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shaker see shale shaker shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. 26 sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. tiebacks (subsea) a series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. wellhead the termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. item 1b. unresolved staff comments during 2010 the company received written comments from the sec regarding the gulf of mexico oil spill, the incident potential impact on the company business and results of operations, and the inclusion of additional disclosures in the company reports regarding the company's insurance policies. the company has responded to the comments noting that its equipment was not involved in the incident and that its current disclosures comply with the sec's applicable rules and regulations. therefore, the company does not believe any new or additional disclosure in its reports regarding the incident or insurance coverage is necessary or useful to investors. 27 item 2. properties the company owned or leased over 825 facilities worldwide as of december 31, 2010, including the following principal manufacturing, service, distribution and administrative facilities: building property lease size size owned / termination location description (sqft) (acres) leased date rig technology: lanzhou, china manufacturing plant (drilling equipment) administrative offices) 945,836 44 building owned* 10/20/2020 pampa, texas manufacturing plant 549,095 500 owned houston, texas manufacturing plant of drilling equipment 424,925 33 leased 4/30/2014 ulsan, south korea fabrication of drilling equipment 380,068 51 owned houston, texas bammel facility, repairs, service, parts, administrative sales offices 377,750 19 leased 6/30/2022 houston, texas west little york manufacturing facility, repairs, service, administrative sales offices 368,450 34 owned fort worth, texas coiled tubing manufacturing facility, warehouse, administrative sales offices 233,173 24 owned sugar land, texas manufacturing plant, warehouse administrative offices 223,345 24 owned cedar park, texas instrumentation manufacturing facility, administrative sales offices 215,778 40 owned carquefou, france manufacturing plant of offshore equipment 213,000 owned galena park, texas manufacturing plant (drilling rigs components) administrative offices 191,913 22 owned lafayette, louisiana repair, services and spares facility 189,000 17 leased 9/28/2025 aberdeen, scotland pressure control manufacturing, administrative sales offices 188,200 5 leased 8/31/2018 houston, texas manufacturing plant of drilling rigs components, admin sales offices 170,040 11 owned kristiansand, norway warehouse administrative/sales offices 167,200 1 owned orange, california manufacturing office facility 158,268 9 building owned* 12/31/2012 singapore manufacturing, repairs, service, field service/training, administrative sales offices 149,605 3 leased 1/5/2024 anderson, texas rolligon manufacturing facility, administrative sales offices 145,727 77 leased 11/6/2011 houston, texas administrative offices (westchase) 125,494 4 leased 9/30/2020 duncan, oklahoma nitrogen units manufacturing facility, warehouse offices 93,800 14 owned conroe, texas manufacturing plant, administrative sales offices 86,909 13 leased 1/7/2022 molde, norway manufacturing facility of drilling equipment 78,000 1 owned etten leur, netherlands manufacturing plant sales offices (drilling equipment) 75,000 6 owned sogne, norway warehouse and offices 70,959 4 leased 12/31/2017 edmonton, canada manufacturing plant (drilling machinery equipment) 70,346 18 owned stavanger, norway manufacturing facility of drilling equipment 41,333 1 leased 6/1/2011 dubai, uae repair overhaul of drilling equipment, warehouse sales office 31,633 2 owned aracaju, brazil fabrication of drilling equipment 11,195 1 leased 8/31/2011 new iberia, louisiana riser repair facility 10,000 2 leased m-t-m 28 building property lease size size owned / termination location description (sqft) (acres) leased date petroleum services supplies: navasota, texas manufacturing facility administrative offices 562,112 196 owned conroe, texas manufacturing facility of drill bits and downhole tools, administrative sales offices 341,800 35 owned houston, texas sheldon road inspection facility 319,365 192 owned veracruz, mexico manufacturing facility of tool joints, warehouse administrative offices 303,400 42 leased m-t-m houston, texas holmes rd complex: manufacturing, warehouse, coating manufacturing plant corporate offices 300,000 50 owned little rock, arkansas manufacturing facility of fiber glass products 271,924 44 owned houston, texas manufacturing, service, warehouse administrative offices (wgb) 245,319 14 leased 3/31/2018 houston, texas qt coiled tubing manufacturing facility, warehouse offices 238,428 26 owned durham, england manufacturing facility, warehouse administrative offices 183,100 13 leased 3/30/2066 dubai, uae manufacturing facility of downhole tools, distribution warehouse 180,000 1 leased 1/29/2021 conroe, texas solids control manufacturing facility, warehouse, administrative sales offices, and engineering labs 153,750 35 owned mcalester, oklahoma manufacturing facility of pumps, service administrative offices 139,359 25 owned san antonio, texas manufacturing facility of fiber glass products 120,084 20 owned edmonton, canada manufacturing facility, repairs, assembly, warehouse administrative offices 112,465 11 owned jurong, singapore manufacturing plant of roller cone drill bits, shop, warehouse administrative offices 109,663 5 leased 5/15/2011 provo, utah manufacturing facility of drilling products, fabrication, warehouse administrative offices 109,026 15 owned aberdeenshire, scotland solids control manufacturing facility, assembly, administrative sales offices 107,250 6 owned larose, louisiana generator rentals service, assembly, warehouse administrative offices 72,993 11 leased 6/30/2016 stonehouse, u.k. manufacturing facility, inspection plant premium threading shop 71,000 4 owned groot-ammers, netherlands workshop, warehouse offices 61,859 3 leased 12/31/2018 beaumont, texas pipe threading facility, fabrication, warehouse administrative offices 42,786 40 owned dubai, uae service facility of solids control equipment, screens spare parts, inventory warehouse, sales, rentals administrative offices 14,569 1 leased 10/31/2012 rio de janeiro, brazil service and repair center, and distribution operations 12,116 1 leased m-t-m 29 building property lease size size owned / termination location description (sqft) (acres) leased date distribution: manchester, england manufacturing, assembly testing of pc pumps and expendable parts, administrative sales offices 244,000 11 owned houston, texas distribution and warehouse 120,423 19 building 12/31/2021 owned* lloydminster, canada lloydminster distribution operations; applied products facility 114,100 23 leased 5/31/2019 edmonton, canada redistribution center 100,000 7 leased 1/31/2014 corporate: houston, texas corporate and shared administrative offices 337,019 14 leased 5/31/2017 * building owned but land leased. we own or lease more than 145 repair and manufacturing facilities that refurbish and manufacture new equipment and parts, and approximately 215 distribution service centers, and 465 service centers that provide inspection and equipment rental worldwide. item 3. legal proceedings we have various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings that are pending or threatened, all arising in the ordinary course of business, with respect to commercial, product liability and employee matters. although no assurance can be given with respect to the outcome of these or any other pending legal and administrative proceedings and the effect such outcomes may have, we believe any ultimate liability resulting from the outcome of such claims, lawsuits or administrative proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. item 4. [removed and reserved] 30 part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock is traded on the new york stock exchange (nyse) under the symbol nov . the following table sets forth, for the calendar periods indicated, the range of high and low closing prices for the common stock, as reported by the nyse and the cash dividends declared per share. 2010 2009 first second third fourth first second third fourth quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter common stock sale price: high $ 47.56 $ 46.45 $ 44.85 $ 67.25 $ 33.64 $ 40.08 $ 44.38 $ 49.82 low $ 39.92 $ 33.02 $ 33.24 $ 43.94 $ 22.35 $ 29.27 $ 29.55 $ 40.89 cash dividends per share $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.11 $ $ $ $ 1.10 as of february 17, 2011, there were 3,526 holders of record of our common stock. many stockholders choose to own shares through brokerage accounts and other intermediaries rather than as holders of (excluding individual participants in securities positions listing) record so the actual number of stockholders is unknown but significantly higher. on november 17, 2010, the company board of directors approved a cash dividend of $0.11 per share. the cash dividend was paid on december 17, 2010 to each stockholder of record on december 3, 2010. cash dividends aggregated $46 million and $172 million for the three and twelve months ended december 31, 2010, respectively, and $460 million for both the three and twelve months ended december 31, 2009. the declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the company board of directors and will be dependent upon the company results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by the company board of directors. the information relating to our equity compensation plans required by item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities is incorporated by reference to such information as set forth in item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters contained herein. 31 performance graph the graph below compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock to the p 500 index and the p oil gas equipment services index. the total shareholder return assumes $100 invested on december 31, 2005 in national oilwell varco, inc., the p 500 index and the p oil gas equipment services index. it also assumes reinvestment of all dividends. the peer group is weighted based on the market capitalization of each company. the results shown in the graph below are not necessarily indicative of future performance. comparison of 5 year cumulative total return* among national oilwell varco, inc., the p 500 index and the p oil gas equipment services index * $100 invested on 12/31/05 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. fiscal year ending december 31. copyright 2010 p, a division of the mcgraw-hill companies inc. all rights reserved. 12/05 12/06 12/07 12/08 12/09 12/10 national oilwell varco, inc. 100.00 97.58 234.32 77.96 144.23 222.08 p 500 100.00 115.80 122.16 76.96 97.33 111.99 p oil gas equipment services 100.00 115.54 170.88 69.76 111.47 155.26 this information shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the commission or subject to regulation 14a (17 cfr 240.14a-1-240.14a-104), other than as provided in item 201(e) of regulation s-k, or to the liabilities of section 18 of the exchange act (15 u.s.c. 78r). 32 item 6. selected financial data years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 (1) 2007 2006 (in millions, except per share data) operating data: revenue $ 12,156 $ 12,712 $ 13,431 $ 9,789 $ 7,026 operating profit 2,447 2,315 2,918 2,044 1,111 income before taxes 2,397 2,208 2,961 2,029 1,049 net income attributable to company $ 1,667 $ 1,469 $ 1,952 $ 1,337 $ 684 net income per share basic $ 3.99 $ 3.53 $ 4.91 $ 3.77 $ 1.95 diluted $ 3.98 $ 3.52 $ 4.90 $ 3.76 $ 1.93 cash dividends per share $ 0.41 $ 1.10 $ $ $ other data: depreciation and amortization $ 507 $ 490 $ 402 $ 214 $ 161 capital expenditures $ 232 $ 250 $ 379 $ 252 $ 200 balance sheet data: working capital $ 5,999 $ 5,084 $ 4,034 $ 3,567 $ 2,300 total assets $ 23,050 $ 21,532 $ 21,479 $ 12,115 $ 9,019 long-term debt, less current maturities $ 514 $ 876 $ 870 $ 738 $ 835 total company stockholders equity $ 15,748 $ 14,113 $ 12,628 $ 6,661 $ 5,024 (1) financial results of grant prideco have been included in our consolidated financial statements beginning april 21, 2008, the date the grant prideco merger was completed and each of grant prideco common shares were exchanged for .4498 shares of our common stock and $23.20 in cash. financial information for prior periods and dates may not be comparable with 2008 due to the impact of this business combination on our financial position and results of operation. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the grant prideco merger and related adjusted financial information. 33 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general overview the company is a leading worldwide provider of highly engineered drilling and well-servicing equipment, products and services to the exploration and production segments of the oil and gas industry. with operations in over 825 locations across six continents, we design, manufacture and service a comprehensive line of drilling and well servicing equipment; sell and rent drilling motors, specialized downhole tools, and rig instrumentation; perform inspection and internal coating of oilfield tubular products; provide drill cuttings separation, management and disposal systems and services; provide expendables and spare parts used in conjunction with our large installed base of equipment; and provide supply chain management services through our distribution network. we also manufacture coiled tubing, manufacture high pressure fiberglass and composite tubing, and sell and rent advanced in-line inspection equipment to makers of oil country tubular goods. we have a long tradition of pioneering innovations which improve the cost-effectiveness, efficiency, safety, and environmental impact of oil and gas operations. our revenues and operating results are directly related to the level of worldwide oil and gas drilling and production activities and the profitability and cash flow of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, which in turn are affected by current and anticipated prices of oil and gas. oil and gas prices have been and are likely to continue to be volatile. see risk factors . we conduct our operations through three business segments: rig technology, petroleum services supplies and distribution services. see item 1. business for a discussion of each of these business segments. operating environment overview our results are dependent on, among other things, the level of worldwide oil and gas drilling, well remediation activity, the price of crude oil and natural gas, capital spending by other oilfield service companies and drilling contractors, and the worldwide oil and gas inventory levels. key industry indicators for the past three years include the following: % % 2010 v 2010 v 2010* 2009* 2008* 2009 2008 active drilling rigs: u.s. 1,541 1,086 1,878 41.9 % (17.9 )% canada 351 221 379 58.8 % (7.4 )% international 1,094 997 1,079 9.7 % 1.4 % worldwide 2,986 2,304 3,336 29.6 % (10.5 )% west texas intermediate crude prices (per barrel) $ 79.40 $ 61.65 $ 99.63 28.8 % (20.3 )% natural gas prices ($/mmbtu) $ 4.39 $ 3.95 $ 8.86 11.1 % (50.5 )% * averages for the years indicated. see sources below. 34 the following table details the u.s., canadian, and international rig activity and west texas intermediate oil prices for the past nine quarters ended december 31, 2010 on a quarterly basis: source: rig count: baker hughes, inc. ( www.bakerhughes.com ); west texas intermediate crude price: department of energy, energy information administration ( www.eia.doe.gov ). the average price per barrel of west texas intermediate crude was $79.40 per barrel in 2010, an increase of 28.8% over the average price for 2009 of $61.65 per barrel. average natural gas prices were $4.39 per mmbtu, an increase of 11.1% compared to the 2009 average of $3.95 per mmbtu. higher oil prices led to increased rig activity worldwide, increasing 29.6% for the full year in 2010 compared to 2009. average crude oil prices for the fourth quarter of 2010 was $85.10 per barrel and natural gas was $3.80 per mmbtu. at february 4, 2011, there were 1,739 rigs actively drilling in the u.s., compared to 1,694 rigs at december 31, 2010; an increase of 2.7% from year end 2010 levels. the price of oil decreased to $89.03 per barrel and gas increased to $4.48 per mmbtu at february 4, 2011 representing a 2.6% decrease in oil prices and a 6.2% increase in gas prices from the end of 2010. 35 executive summary during 2010 national oilwell varco, inc. generated nearly $1.7 billion in net income attributable to the company, or $3.98 per fully diluted share. earnings increased 13 percent from prior year levels of $1.5 billion or $3.52 per fully diluted share. excluding intangible asset impairment and transaction, devaluation and voluntary retirement charges from both years, diluted earnings per share of $4.09 in 2010 increased four percent from $3.95 per share in 2009. 2010 revenues declined four percent from 2009, to $12.2 billion, but operating profit improved from $2.3 billion to $2.4 billion. generally, 2010 benefitted from higher drilling activity when rig counts increased nearly 30 percent from 2009. this market improvement enabled revenues from two of the company reporting segments, petroleum services supplies and distribution services, to increase from the prior year. however the company largest segment, rig technology, declined in revenue in 2010 as it worked down its backlog of capital equipment mostly ordered by customers in 2007 and 2008. for its fourth quarter ended december 31, 2010, the company generated $440 million in net income attributable to the company, or $1.05 per fully diluted share, on $3.2 billion in revenue. compared to the third quarter of 2010, revenue increased five percent and net income attributable to the company increased nine percent. compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, revenue increased one percent and net income attributable to the company increased 12 percent. the fourth quarter of 2010 included pre-tax transaction charges of $1 million, the third quarter of 2010 included pre-tax transaction charges of $2 million, and the fourth quarter of 2009 included pre-tax transaction charges of $14 million. excluding transaction charges from all periods, fourth quarter 2010 earnings were $1.05 per fully diluted share, compared to $0.97 per fully diluted share in the third quarter of 2010 and $0.96 per fully diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2009. operating profit excluding transaction charges was $625 million or 19.7 percent of sales in the fourth quarter of 2010, compared to $598 million or 19.9 percent of sales in the third quarter of 2010 excluding transaction charges. operating profit excluding transaction charges was $622 million or 19.8 percent of sales for the fourth quarter of 2009. following the macondo well blowout and oil spill, a moratorium on deepwater drilling in the gulf of mexico was enacted during the second quarter of 2010 and was lifted during the fourth quarter of 2010. nevertheless drilling activity in the u.s. gulf of mexico remains lower than pre-blowout levels due to the industry difficulty in securing drilling permits. the drilling moratorium reduced the company earnings by approximately four cents per fully diluted share during 2010, with most of the impact affecting the petroleum services supplies segment. the distribution services segment posted higher sales in the gulf coast as it helped outfit the response effort with basic supplies during the second and third quarters of 2010, but most of these previously incremental sales disappeared in the fourth quarter as cleanup operations were completed. the rig technology group saw modestly higher purchases of spares and consumables among the affected rigs, which appear to be utilizing this period of low drilling activity in the gulf of mexico to conduct upgrade and maintenance activities. some offshore drilling contractors appear to be pausing to see the ultimate resolution of new pressure control equipment requirements, and as a result some specific purchases, such as drill pipe and conductor pipe connections, are at risk pending the outcome of this pause. oil gas equipment and services market worldwide developed economies turned down sharply late in 2008 as looming housing-related asset write-downs at major financial institutions paralyzed credit markets and sparked a serious global banking crisis. major central banks responded vigorously through 2009, but a credit-driven worldwide economic recession continues to dampen economic growth in many developed economies. as a result asset and commodity prices, including oil and gas prices, declined. after rising steadily for six years to peak at around $140 per barrel early in 2008, oil prices collapsed back to average $42.91 per barrel (west texas intermediate crude prices) during the first quarter of 2009, but recovered into the $70 to $90 per barrel range by the end of 2009 where they are holding steady (the fourth quarter of 2010 averaged $85.10 per barrel). north american gas prices declined to average $3.17 per mmbtu in the third quarter of 2009, but recovered slightly and have traded in a range of $3 to $5 per mmbtu since (the fourth quarter of 2010 averaged $3.80 per mmbtu). the steadily rising oil and gas prices seen between 2003 and 2008 led to high levels of exploration and development drilling in many oil and gas basins around the globe by 2008, but activity slowed sharply in 2009 with lower oil and gas prices and tightening credit availability. commodity prices appear to have recovered more quickly than economic activity through 2010, leading to solid increases in drilling activity during 2010. 36 the count of rigs actively drilling in the u.s. as measured by baker hughes (a good measure of the level of oilfield activity and spending) peaked at 2,031 rigs in september 2008, but decreased to a low of 876 in june 2009. u.s. rig count has since increased to 1,739 in early february 2011, and averaged 1,687 rigs during the fourth quarter of 2010. many oil and gas operators reliant on external financing to fund their drilling programs significantly curtailed their drilling activity in 2009, but drilling recovered across north america as gas prices improved and, more recently, as operators began to drill unconventional shale plays targeting oil, rather than gas. during the fourth quarter of 2010, oil drilling rose to an average of 43 percent of the total domestic drilling effort, compared to 22 percent in the first half of 2009. most international activity is driven by oil exploration and production by national oil companies, which have historically been less susceptible to short-term commodity price swings. the international rig count has exhibited modest declines nonetheless, falling from its september 2008 peak of 1,108 to 947 in august 2009, but recently increased to 1,161 in january 2011. during 2009 the company saw its petroleum services supplies and its distribution services margins affected most acutely by a drilling downturn, through both volume and price declines; nevertheless, both of these segments saw pricing stabilize and revenues recover modestly since the third quarter of 2009. the company rig technology segment was less impacted owing to its high level of contracted backlog which it has executed on very well since the economic downturn. rig technology posted higher revenues in 2009 than 2008 as a result, but revenues declined in 2010 as its backlog declined. the recent economic decline beginning in late 2008 followed an extended period of high drilling activity which fueled strong demand for oilfield services between 2003 and 2008. incremental drilling activity through the upswing shifted toward harsh environments, employing increasingly sophisticated technology to find and produce reserves. higher utilization of drilling rigs tested the capability of the world fleet of rigs, much of which is old and of limited capability. technology has advanced significantly since most of the existing rig fleet was built. the industry invested little during the late 1980 and 1990 on new drilling equipment, but drilling technology progressed steadily nonetheless, as the company and its competitors continued to invest in new and better ways of drilling. as a consequence, the safety, reliability, and efficiency of new modern rigs surpass the performance of most of the older rigs at work today. drilling rigs are now being pushed to drill deeper wells, more complex wells, highly deviated wells and horizontal wells; tasks which require larger rigs with more capabilities. the drilling process effectively consumes the mechanical components of a rig, which wear out and need periodic repair or replacement. this process was accelerated by very high rig utilization and wellbore complexity. drilling consumes rigs; more complex and challenging drilling consumes rigs faster. the industry responded by launching many new rig construction projects since 2005, to: 1) retool the existing fleet of jackup rigs (according to offshore data services, 71 percent of the existing 459 jackup rigs are more than 25 years old); 2) replace older mechanical and dc electric land rigs with improved ac power, electronic controls, automatic pipe handling and rapid rigup and rigdown technology; and 3) build out additional deepwater floating drilling rigs, including semisubmersibles and drillships, employing recent advancements in deepwater drilling to exploit unexplored deepwater basins. we believe that the newer rigs offer considerably higher efficiency, safety, and capability, and that many will effectively replace a portion of the existing fleet, and declining dayrates may accelerate the retirement of older rigs. as a result of these trends the company rig technology segment grew its backlog of capital equipment orders from $0.9 billion at march 31, 2005, to $11.8 billion at september 30, 2008. however, due to the credit crisis and slowing drilling activity, orders have declined below amounts flowing out of backlog as revenue, causing the backlog to decline to $4.9 billion by june 30, 2010. the backlog increased modestly through the second half of 2010 as drillers began ordering more than the company shipped out of backlog, and finished the year at $5.0 billion. approximately $4 billion of contracted backlog is scheduled to flow out as revenue during 2011 and $1 billion is scheduled to flow out as revenue during 2012. the land rig backlog comprised 14 percent and equipment destined for offshore operations comprised 86 percent of the total backlog as of december 31, 2010. equipment destined for international markets totaled 86 percent of the backlog. the company experienced relatively minor levels of order cancelations since 2008 (less than four percent), and does not expect additional material cancellation of contracts or abandonment of major projects; however, there can be no assurance that such discontinuance of projects will not occur. segment performance the rig technology segment generated $7.0 billion in revenues and $2.1 billion in operating profit or 29.6 percent of sales, excluding transaction charges, during 2010. compared to the prior year revenues declined 14 percent, and operating profit flow-through or leverage (the change in operating profit divided by the change in revenue) was 19 percent for the segment. for the fourth quarter of 2010 the segment produced revenues of $1,757 million, representing a six percent improvement from the third quarter and an 11 percent decline from the fourth quarter of 2009. segment operating profit was $500 million and operating margins were 28.5 percent during the fourth quarter. operating profit flow-through was 19 percent sequentially, and 30 percent year-over-year. revenues from higher-margin offshore projects declined from the third quarter of 2010 to the fourth quarter, and lower-margin revenues from land rigs and well intervention equipment increased, resulting in a modestly unfavorable mix shift that pulled margins down and produced low incremental leverage on the revenue gains for the group. many of the offshore projects were contracted at high prices in 2007 and 2008, and are now being manufactured in much lower cost environments, and benefit from greater project execution experience within the group. non-backlog revenue, which is predominantly aftermarket spares and services, declined one percent sequentially and 37 increased four percent from the fourth quarter of 2009. orders for two deepwater floating rigs and several jackup drilling packages, higher pressure pumping and stimulation equipment demand, and orders for fpso equipment which came with the company acquisition of apl in december 2010, contributed to total order additions to backlog of $1,408 million during the fourth quarter, up 17 percent from the third quarter. revenue out of backlog of $1,271 million increased 10 percent sequentially. interest in offshore rig construction appears to be increasing with a number of announcements of newbuild projects made by drillers since year end. additionally the company submitted tenders for up to 28 deepwater rigs for petrobras to shipyards and drilling contractors during 2010, which are to be built in brazil. the company expects to book some orders from these tenders in the first half of 2011, but the tender awards remain subject to acceptance by petrobras, and further delays are possible. these tenders require a high and rising level of local brazilian content in the construction of new rigs. the petroleum services supplies segment generated $4.2 billion in revenue and $585 million in operating profit, or 14.0 percent of sales, for the full year 2010. compared to the prior year revenue increased 12 percent, and operating profit flow-through was 30 percent. for the fourth quarter of 2010, the segment generated total sales of $1,137 million, up four percent from the third quarter of 2010 and up 21 percent from the fourth quarter of 2009. operating profit was $170 million or 15.0 percent of sales during the fourth quarter of 2010. year-over-year operating profit flow-through from the fourth quarter of 2009 to the fourth quarter of 2010 was 31 percent, and sequential operating profit flow-through was 13 percent from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of 2010, lower than expected due to a variety of product mix changes across the segment, start up costs in new operations in the middle east and brazil, and slightly higher incentive compensation accruals in the fourth quarter. modest sequential revenue growth was evenly spread across most major areas, albeit with mix shifts from product to product. brazil, russia and the middle east posted some of the largest sequential gains, along with good sequential improvement in the u.s. centered in the liquids rich shale plays like the bakken and the eagle ford. nov downhole posted strong sequential sales growth on higher sales in the eastern hemisphere, canada, and u.s. shales, with drilling motors and borehole enlargement tools in particularly high demand. drill pipe orders slowed slightly this quarter as dwindling budgets and holidays slowed inquiries late in the year, but the first few weeks of 2011 have seen orders pick back up. drill pipe margins improved in the fourth quarter due to a lower mix of chinese drill pipe sales. the distribution services segment generated $1.5 billion in revenue and $78 million in operating profit or 5.0 percent of sales during 2010. revenues improved 15 percent from 2009, and operating profit flow-through was 14 percent from 2009 to 2010. for the fourth quarter of 2010 revenues were $423 million, up 28 percent from the fourth quarter of 2009 and down slightly from the third quarter of 2010. operating profit of $30 million for the fourth quarter produced operating margins of 7.1 percent for the quarter, and operating profit flow-through was a very strong 24 percent from the fourth quarter of 2009. revenues from the u.s. declined sequentially with lower sales into the gulf coast oil spill cleanup effort, but this was mostly offset by higher sales in canada, where drilling activity increased seasonally, and higher international sales of artificial lift equipment and industrial equipment sales in europe and australia. the segment also benefitted from an acquisition in the caspian region closed during the fourth quarter. approximately 78 percent of the group fourth quarter sales were into north american markets and 23 percent were into international markets. outlook while the credit market downturn, global recession, and lower commodity prices presented challenges to our business in 2009, we believe we are seeing signs of stabilization and recovery in many of our markets. specifically we are encouraged by higher drilling activity in north america, and steadily higher international drilling activity. order levels for new drilling rigs declined significantly in 2009 as compared to 2008 due to credit market conditions and softer rig activity, but we began to see improvement in the second half of 2010 due to dayrate stabilization for certain classes of newer technology rigs, lower rig construction costs, and improving availability of financing, including easier payment terms from shipyards. we expect lower backlogs to lead to modest declines in rig technology revenues and margins over the next few quarters before new offshore rig construction projects can translate into higher revenues. our outlook for the company petroleum services supplies segment and distribution services segment remains closely tied to the rig count, particularly in north america. if the rig count continues to increase we expect these segments to benefit from higher demand for the services, consumables and capital items they supply. many products are beginning to see higher steel, alloy, resin and fiberglass costs impact their business, and are attempting to raise prices to offset rising costs. continuing tight iron ore supplies to the steel mills could adversely affect margins as the year unfolds. the company believes it is well positioned to continue to manage through the current economic recovery, and should benefit from its strong balance sheet and capitalization, access to credit, and a high level of contracted orders which are expected to continue to generate earnings in future periods. the company has a long history of cost-control and downsizing in response to depressed market conditions, and of executing strategic acquisitions during difficult periods. such a period may also present opportunities for the company to effect new organic growth and acquisition initiatives. 38 results of operations years ended december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009 the following table summarizes the company revenue and operating profit by operating segment in 2010 and 2009 (in millions): years ended december 31, variance 2010 2009 $ % revenue: rig technology $ 6,965 $ 8,093 $ (1,128 ) (13.9 )% petroleum services supplies 4,182 3,745 437 11.7 % distribution services 1,546 1,350 196 14.5 % eliminations (537 ) (476 ) (61 ) 12.8 % total revenue $ 12,156 $ 12,712 $ (556 ) (4.4 )% operating profit: rig technology $ 2,064 $ 2,283 $ (219 ) (9.6 )% petroleum services supplies 585 301 284 94.4 % distribution services 78 50 28 56.0 % unallocated expenses and eliminations (280 ) (319 ) 39 (12.2 )% total operating profit $ 2,447 $ 2,315 $ 132 5.7 % operating profit %: rig technology 29.6 % 28.2 % petroleum services supplies 14.0 % 8.0 % distribution services 5.0 % 3.7 % total operating profit % 20.1 % 18.2 % rig technology rig technology revenue for the year ended december 31, 2010 was $6,965 million, a decrease of $1,128 million (13.9%) compared to 2009, primarily due to the decrease of revenue out of backlog of $1,048 million. non-backlog revenue decreased 4.3% primarily due to lower capital equipment shipments in 2010. operating profit from rig technology was $2,064 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, a decrease of $219 million (9.6%) over the same period of 2009. operating profit percentage increased to 29.6%, up from 28.2% in 2009 primarily due to lower costs than originally estimated on large rig projects as well as improved manufacturing efficiencies. the rig technology segment monitors its capital equipment backlog to plan its business. new orders are added to backlog only when we receive a firm written order for major drilling rig components or a signed contract related to a construction project. the capital equipment backlog was $5.0 billion at december 31, 2010, a decrease of $1.4 billion (21.8%) from backlog of $6.4 billion at december 31, 2009. approximately $4.0 billion of the current backlog is expected to be delivered in 2011. petroleum services supplies revenue from petroleum services supplies was $4,182 million for 2010 compared to $3,745 million for 2009, an increase of $437 million (11.7%). the increase was primarily attributable to a 41.9% increase in average rig count activity in the u.s. market in 2010 compared to 2009. operating profit from petroleum services supplies was $585 million for 2010 compared to $301 million for 2009, an increase of $284 million (94.4%). operating profit percentage increased to 14.0% up from 8.0% in 2009. the 2009 results included a $147 million impairment charge on the carrying value of a trade name associated with this segment. in addition, strong domestic demand fueled by an increase in domestic rig count contributed to the increase in revenue and resulting improvement in operating profit. 39 distribution services revenue from distribution services totaled $1,546 million for 2010, an increase of $196 million (14.5%) from 2009. this increase was primarily attributable to increased u.s. rig count activity in general and due to the oil spill in the gulf of mexico, which drove significant emergency project work during 2010. operating profit increased in 2010 to $78 million compared to $50 million in 2009. operating profit percentage increased to 5.0% in 2010 from 3.7% in 2009 primarily due to increased volume and favorable pricing in 2010. unallocated expenses and eliminations unallocated expenses and eliminations were $280 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to $319 million for 2009. the decrease is primarily due to $46 million of voluntary retirement costs that were taken in 2009. this was slightly offset by higher intercompany profit elimination related to sales between the segments and an $11 million write-down of certain accounts receivable in venezuela during 2010. interest and financial costs interest and financial costs were $50 million for 2010 compared to $53 million for 2009. the decrease in interest and financial costs was due to an overall decrease in average debt levels for 2010 compared to 2009. equity income in unconsolidated affiliate equity income in unconsolidated affiliate was $36 million for 2010 compared to $47 million for 2009 and was related to the equity earnings from the company 50.01% investment in voest-alpine tubulars ( vat ) located in kindberg, austria. other income (expense), net other income (expense), net was expense, net of $49 million in 2010 compared to expense, net of $110 million in 2009. the decrease in expense was primarily due to a net foreign exchange loss of $30 million in 2010 compared to a $79 million loss in 2009. the lower 2010 foreign exchange losses were primarily due to the current economic environment and the weakening of the euro, the british pound sterling and norwegian krone compared to the u.s. dollar. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange rates. provision for income taxes the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2010 was 30.8% compared to 33.3% for 2009. the tax rate for 2010 includes $37 million of reduction in tax provision for the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions associated with the settlement of audits and lapse of applicable statutes of limitations plus the recovery of prior year taxes. the tax rate for 2009 includes $21 million of additional tax provision recognized on prior year income in norway. the company expects its income tax rate to be in the 30% to 32% range in 2011. 40 years ended december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008 the following table summarizes the company revenue and operating profit by operating segment in 2009 and 2008. the actual results include results from grant prideco operations from the acquisition date of april 21, 2008 (in millions): years ended december 31, variance 2009 2008 $ % revenue: rig technology $ 8,093 $ 7,528 $ 565 7.5 % petroleum services supplies 3,745 4,651 (906 ) (19.5 )% distribution services 1,350 1,772 (422 ) (23.8 )% eliminations (476 ) (520 ) 44 (8.5 )% total revenue $ 12,712 $ 13,431 $ (719 ) (5.4 )% operating profit: rig technology $ 2,283 $ 1,970 $ 313 15.9 % petroleum services supplies 301 1,044 (743 ) (71.2 )% distribution services 50 130 (80 ) (61.5 )% unallocated expenses and eliminations (319 ) (226 ) (93 ) 41.2 % total operating profit $ 2,315 $ 2,918 $ (603 ) (20.7 )% operating profit %: rig technology 28.2 % 26.2 % petroleum services supplies 8.0 % 22.4 % distribution services 3.7 % 7.3 % total operating profit % 18.2 % 21.7 % rig technology rig technology revenue for the year ended december 31, 2009 was $8,093 million, an increase of $565 million (7.5%) compared to 2008. revenue out of backlog increased $934 million or 18% from 2008 due to an increase in the number of large rig projects delivered this year. non-backlog revenue decreased $369 million or 17% compared to 2008, largely due to lower spare parts and capital equipment sales as north american land drillers and pressure pumpers decreased their capital spending in 2009. operating profit from rig technology was $2,283 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, an increase of $313 million (15.9%) over the same period of 2008. operating profit percentage increased to 28.2%, up from 26.2% in 2008 primarily due to the increased manufacturing efficiencies and revision of cost estimates on large rig projects as a result of favorable pricing from vendors. the rig technology segment monitors its capital equipment backlog to plan its business. new orders are added to backlog only when we receive a firm written order for major drilling rig components or a signed contract related to a construction project. the capital equipment backlog was $6.4 billion at december 31, 2009, a decrease of $4.7 billion (42.3%) from backlog of $11.1 billion at december 31, 2008. petroleum services supplies revenue from petroleum services supplies was $3,745 million for 2009 compared to $4,651 million for 2008, a decrease of $906 million (19.5%). the decrease was primarily attributable to a 42% decline in north american average rig count activity in 2009 compared to 2008. operating profit from petroleum services supplies was $301 million for 2009 compared to $1,044 million for 2008, a decrease of $743 million (71.2%). operating profit percentage decreased to 8.0% down from 22.4% in 2008. the decrease was primarily due to reduced north american rig count activity combined with strong price competition. in addition, a $147 million impairment charge was incurred on the carrying value of a trade name associated with this segment in the second quarter of 2009. 41 distribution services revenue from distribution services totaled $1,350 million for 2009, a decrease of $422 million (23.8%) from 2008. the decrease in revenue is mainly concentrated in the north american region as average drilling activity declined 42% in 2009 compared to the prior year. operating profit decreased in 2009 to $50 million compared to $130 million in 2008. operating profit percentage decreased to 3.7% in 2009 from 7.3% in 2008 as a result of strong price competition and volume declines as north american rig activity declined. unallocated expenses and eliminations unallocated expenses and eliminations were $319 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared to $226 million for 2008. the increase in unallocated expenses and eliminations was primarily due to the voluntary retirement costs of $46 million. acquisition costs also contributed to the increase from 2008. interest and financial costs interest and financial costs were $53 million for 2009 compared to $67 million for 2008. the decrease in interest and financial costs were primarily a direct result of the repayment of borrowings on the company credit facility used to purchase grant prideco, the repayment of the company 7.5% senior notes and the repayment of a portion of the company 6.125% senior notes. these repayments occurred during 2008 causing lower debt levels in 2009. equity income in unconsolidated affiliate equity income in unconsolidated affiliate was $47 million for 2009 compared to $42 million for 2008 and was related to the april 21, 2008 acquisition of grant prideco. the income was related to the equity earnings from the company 50.01% investment in voest-alpine tubulars ( vat ) located in kindberg, austria. other income (expense), net other income (expense), net was expense, net of $110 million in 2009 compared to income, net of $23 million in 2008. the 2009 expense was primarily due to a net foreign exchange loss of $79 million, as compared to a net foreign exchange gain of $50 million in 2008. the 2009 foreign exchange losses were primarily due to adjustments of our hedge positions as a result of the current economic environment and the strengthening of the euro, the british pound sterling, canadian dollar and norwegian krone compared to the u.s. dollar. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange rates. provision for income taxes the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2009 was 33.3% compared to 33.5% for 2008. the tax rate includes $21 million of additional tax provision recognized in the second quarter 2009 on prior year income in norway. these additional taxes resulted from foreign currency gains on dollar-denominated accounts that were realized for norwegian tax purposes. 42 liquidity and capital resources at december 31, 2010, the company had cash and cash equivalents of $3,333 million, and total debt of $887 million. at december 31, 2009, cash and cash equivalents were $2,622 million and total debt was $883 million. a significant portion of the consolidated cash balances are maintained in accounts in various foreign subsidiaries and, if such amounts were transferred among countries or repatriated to the u.s., such amounts may be subject to additional tax obligations. rather than repatriating this cash, the company may choose to borrow against its credit facility. the company outstanding debt at december 31, 2010 consisted of $200 million of 5.65% senior notes due 2012, $200 million of 7.25% senior notes due 2011, $150 million of 6.5% senior notes due 2011, $150 million of 5.5% senior notes due 2012, $151 million of 6.125% senior notes due 2015, and other debt of $36 million. there were no borrowings against the company unsecured revolving credit facility, and there were $477 million in outstanding letters of credit issued under the facility, resulting in $1,523 million of funds available under the company unsecured revolving credit facility at december 31, 2010. the company had $1,366 million of additional outstanding letters of credit at december 31, 2010, primarily in norway, that are essentially under various bilateral committed letter of credit facilities. other letters of credit are issued as bid bonds and performance bonds. the senior notes contain reporting covenants and the credit facility contains a financial covenant regarding maximum debt to capitalization. the company was in compliance with all covenants at december 31, 2010. the following table summarizes our net cash flows provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities for the periods presented (in millions): years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,542 $ 2,095 $ 2,294 net cash used in investing activities (743 ) (552 ) (2,473 ) net cash used in financing activities (102 ) (491 ) (74 ) operating activities net cash flow provided by operating activities decreased by $553 million to $1,542 million in 2010 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $2,095 million in 2009. the primary reason for the decrease is the reduction of customer financing on projects during 2010, as backlog declined $1,395 million from $6,406 million to $5,011 million during 2010. customer financing, as the net of prepayments, billings in excess of costs, less costs in excess of billings, was down approximately $737 million from december 31, 2009. also, increased business activity in 2010 resulted in higher working capital and lower cash balance as accounts receivable increased $189 million. before changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions, cash was provided by operations in 2010 primarily through net income of $1,659 million plus depreciation and amortization of $507 million. dividends from the company unconsolidated affiliate were $17 million less $36 million in equity income from the company unconsolidated affiliate. during 2010, net changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions, decreased cash provided by operating activities by $609 million. the company received $33 million and $94 million in dividends from its unconsolidated affiliate in 2010 and 2009, respectively. the portion included in operating activities in 2010 and 2009 was $17 million and $86 million, respectively. the remainder of $16 million and $8 million was included in investing activities in 2010 and 2009, respectively. investing activities net cash used in investing activities was $743 million in 2010 compared to net cash used in investing of $552 million in 2009. the primary reason for the increase in cash used in investing activities in 2010 related to the absence of business divestitures during 2010 which was an increase to cash provided in 2009. acquisitions in 2010 decreased to approximately $556 million compared to $573 million used in 2009 and capital expenditures decreased to approximately $232 million compared to $250 million used in 2009. the decreases in cash used in investing activities were offset by an increase in the portion of a dividend received by the company unconsolidated affiliate in 2010 that related to investing activities. 43 financing activities net cash used in financing activities was $102 million in 2010 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $491 million in 2009. the decrease in cash used in financing activities in 2010 primarily related to a decrease in cash dividends to approximately $172 million compared to approximately $460 million in cash dividends paid in 2009. this decrease was partially offset by an increase in proceeds from stock options exercised to $73 million and an increase in excess tax benefit from exercise of stock options to $10 million in 2010 compared to $8 million in proceeds from stock options exercised and $1 million in excess tax benefit from exercise of stock options in 2009. payments on debt decreased to approximately $16 million in 2010 compared to $47 million in 2009. for 2010, the company used its cash on hand to fund its acquisitions. the effect of the change in exchange rates on cash flows was a positive $14 million and $27 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. we believe cash on hand, cash generated from operations and amounts available under the credit facility and from other sources of debt will be sufficient to fund operations, working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements and financing obligations. at december 31, 2010, the company had $1,523 million of available funds under its revolving credit facility. we also believe increases in capital expenditures caused by any need to increase manufacturing capacity can be funded from operations or through existing available debt financing. a summary of the company outstanding contractual obligations at december 31, 2010 is as follows (in millions): payment due by period less after than 1 1-3 4-5 5 total year years years years contractual obligations: total debt $ 887 $ 373 $ 360 $ 153 $ 1 operating leases 639 130 166 105 238 total contractual obligations $ 1,526 $ 503 $ 526 $ 258 $ 239 commercial commitments: standby letters of credit $ 1,843 $ 1,224 $ 609 $ 8 $ 2 as of december 31, 2010, the company had $118 million of unrecognized tax benefits. this represents the tax benefits associated with various tax positions taken, or expected to be taken, on domestic and international tax returns that have not been recognized in our financial statements due to uncertainty regarding their resolution. due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with these unrecognized tax benefits, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. accordingly, unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. for further information related to unrecognized tax benefits, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. we intend to pursue additional acquisition candidates, but the timing, size or success of any acquisition effort and the related potential capital commitments cannot be predicted. we expect to fund future cash acquisitions and capital spending primarily with cash flow from operations and borrowings, including the unborrowed portion of the credit facility or new debt issuances, but may also issue additional equity either directly or in connection with acquisitions. there can be no assurance that additional financing for acquisitions will be available at terms acceptable to us or at all. 44 critical accounting estimates in preparing the financial statements, we make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported. we periodically evaluate our estimates and judgments that are most critical in nature which are related to revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts; allowance for doubtful accounts; inventory reserves; impairments of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets); goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets; service and product warranties and income taxes. our estimates are based on historical experience and on our future expectations that we believe are reasonable. the combination of these factors forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results are likely to differ from our current estimates and those differences may be material. revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts the company uses the percentage-of-completion method to account for certain long-term construction contracts in the rig technology segment. these long-term construction contracts include the following characteristics: the contracts include custom designs for customer specific applications; the structural design is unique and requires significant engineering efforts; and construction projects often have progress payments. this method requires the company to make estimates regarding the total costs of the project, progress against the project schedule and the estimated completion date, all of which impact the amount of revenue and gross margin the company recognizes in each reporting period. the company prepares detailed cost to complete estimates at the beginning of each project, taking into account all factors considered likely to affect gross margin. significant projects and their related costs and profit margins are updated and reviewed at least quarterly by senior management. factors that may affect future project costs and margins include shipyard access, weather, production efficiencies, availability and costs of labor, materials and subcomponents and other factors as mentioned in risk factors. these factors can significantly impact the accuracy of the company estimates and materially impact the company future reported earnings. historically, the company estimates have been reasonably dependable regarding the recognition of revenues and gross profits on percentage-of-completion contracts. based upon an analysis of percentage-of-completion contracts for all open contracts outstanding at december 31, 2009 and 2008, adjustments (representing the differences between the estimated and actual results) to all outstanding contracts resulted in net changes to gross profit margins of 1.4% ($119 million on $8.6 billion of outstanding contracts) and 1.0% ($53 million on $5.4 billion of outstanding contracts) for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. while the company believes that its estimates on outstanding contracts at december 31, 2010 and in future periods will continue to be reasonably dependable under percentage-of-completion accounting, the factors identified in the preceding paragraph could result in significant adjustments in future periods. the company has recorded revenue on outstanding contracts (on a contract-to-date basis) of $9.3 billion at december 31, 2010. allowance for doubtful accounts the determination of the collectability of amounts due from customer accounts requires the company to make judgments regarding future events and trends. allowances for doubtful accounts are determined based on a continuous process of assessing the company portfolio on an individual customer basis taking into account current market conditions and trends. this process consists of a thorough review of historical collection experience, current aging status of the customer accounts, and financial condition of the company customers. based on a review of these factors, the company will establish or adjust allowances for specific customers. a substantial portion of the company revenues come from international oil companies, international shipyards, international oilfield service companies, and government-owned or government-controlled oil companies. therefore, the company has significant receivables in many foreign jurisdictions. if worldwide oil and gas drilling activity or changes in economic conditions in foreign jurisdictions deteriorate, the creditworthiness of the company customers could also deteriorate and they may be unable to pay these receivables, and additional allowances could be required. at december 31, 2010 and 2009, allowance for bad debts totaled $107 million and $95 million, or 4.2% and 4.3% of gross accounts receivable, respectively. historically, the company charge-offs and provisions for the allowance for doubtful accounts have been immaterial to the company consolidated financial statements. however, because of the risk factors mentioned above, changes in our estimates could become material in future periods. 45 inventory reserves inventory is carried at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. the company determines reserves for inventory based on historical usage of inventory on-hand, assumptions about future demand and market conditions, and estimates about potential alternative uses, which are usually limited. the company inventory consists of specialized spare parts, work in process, and raw materials to support ongoing manufacturing operations and the company large installed base of specialized equipment used throughout the oilfield. customers rely on the company to stock these specialized items to ensure that their equipment can be repaired and serviced in a timely manner. the company estimated carrying value of inventory therefore depends upon demand driven by oil and gas drilling and well remediation activity, which depends in turn upon oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the company customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. at december 31, 2010 and 2009, inventory reserves totaled $270 million and $206 million, or 7.4% and 5.9% of gross inventory, respectively. while inventory reserves and accruals have not had a material impact on the company financial results for the periods covered in this report, changes in worldwide oil and gas activity, or the development of new technologies which make older drilling technologies obsolete, could require the company to record additional allowances to reduce the value of its inventory. such changes in our estimates could be material under weaker market conditions or outlook. impairment of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets) long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment and identified intangible assets, comprise a significant amount of the company total assets. the company makes judgments and estimates in conjunction with the carrying value of these assets, including amounts to be capitalized, depreciation and amortization methods and estimated useful lives. the carrying values of these assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. an impairment loss is recorded in the period in which it is determined that the carrying amount is not recoverable. we estimate the fair value of these intangible and fixed assets using an income approach. this requires the company to make long-term forecasts of its future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review. these forecasts require assumptions about demand for the company products and services, future market conditions and technological developments. the forecasts are dependent upon assumptions regarding oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the company customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. the financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our income forecast as well as our weighted-average cost of capital, both key assumptions used in our calculation. changes to these assumptions, including, but not limited to: sustained declines in worldwide rig counts below current analysts forecasts, collapse of spot and futures prices for oil and gas, significant deterioration of external financing for our customers, higher risk premiums or higher cost of equity, or any other significant adverse economic news could require a provision for impairment in a future period. due to significant declines in the company stock price and oil and gas commodity prices, coupled with unprecedented turbulence in the credit markets, the company determined a triggering event occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008. the company performed an impairment analysis at december 31, 2008 which did not result in an impairment charge. goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets the company has approximately $5.8 billion of goodwill and $0.6 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2010. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually or more frequently whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include, but not limited to: further sustained declines in worldwide rig counts below current analysts forecasts, further collapse of spot and futures prices for oil and gas, significant additional deterioration of external financing for our customers, higher risk premiums or higher cost of equity. the annual impairment test is performed during the fourth quarter of each year. based on its analysis, the company did not report any impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2008. as described below, the company concluded that an indicator of impairment occurred in the second quarter of 2009 and updated its impairment testing at june 30, 2009. based on its updated analysis, the company concluded that it did not incur an impairment of goodwill for the period ended june 30, 2009. however, based on the company indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment analysis performed during the second quarter of 2009, the company concluded that it incurred an impairment charge to certain indefinite-lived intangible assets of $147 million at june 30, 2009. the $147 million impairment charge is included in the company consolidated income statement for the year ended december 31, 2009. 46 during the second quarter of 2009, the worldwide average rig count was 2,009 rigs, down 41% from the fourth quarter 2008 average of 3,395 and down 25% from the first quarter 2009 average of 2,681. the second quarter 2009 average rig count represented the lowest quarterly average in the past six years. in addition, the company updated forecast was behind the company previous forecast completed at the beginning of 2009. while operating profit for the first quarter of 2009 was in line with the company first quarter 2009 operating profit forecast, the company consolidated operating profit for the second quarter of 2009 was below its second quarter 2009 forecast. as a result of the substantial decline in the worldwide rig count, and the decline in actual/forecasted results compared to the original 2009 forecast, the company concluded that events or circumstances had occurred indicating that goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets might be impaired as described under accounting standards codification ( asc ) topic 350 intangibles goodwill and other . therefore, the company performed its interim impairment test of goodwill for all its reporting units at the end of the second quarter of 2009. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined by deducting the fair value of a reporting unit identifiable assets and liabilities from the fair value of that reporting unit as a whole. fair value of the reporting units is determined in accordance with asc topic 820 fair value measurements and disclosures using significant unobservable inputs, or level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. these inputs are based on internal management estimates, forecasts and judgments, using a combination of three methods: discounted cash flow, comparable companies, and representative transactions. while the company primarily uses the discounted cash flow method to assess fair value, the company uses the comparable companies and representative transaction methods to validate the discounted cash flow analysis and further support management expectations, where possible. the discounted cash flow is based on management short-term and long-term forecast of operating performance for each reporting unit. the two main assumptions used in measuring goodwill impairment, which bear the risk of change and could impact the company goodwill impairment analysis, include the cash flow from operations from each of the company individual business units and the weighted average cost of capital. the starting point for each of the reporting unit cash flow from operations is the detailed annual plan or updated forecast. the detailed planning and forecasting process takes into consideration a multitude of factors including worldwide rig activity, inflationary forces, pricing strategies, customer analysis, operational issues, competitor analysis, capital spending requirements, working capital needs, customer needs to replace aging equipment, increased complexity of drilling, new technology, and existing backlog among other items which impact the individual reporting unit projections. cash flows beyond the specific operating plans were estimated using a terminal value calculation, which incorporated historical and forecasted financial cyclical trends for each reporting unit and considered long-term earnings growth rates. the financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate. during times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit changes are a short-term or long-term trend. projections for the remainder of 2009 also reflected declines compared to the original 2009 annual forecast. the company updated its 2009 operating forecast, long-term forecast, and discounted cash flows based on this information. the goodwill impairment analysis that we performed during the second quarter of 2009 did not result in goodwill impairment as of june 30, 2009. other indefinite-lived intangible assets, representing trade names management intends to use indefinitely, were valued using significant unobservable inputs (level 3) and are tested for impairment using the relief from royalty method, a form of the income approach. an impairment is measured and recognized based on the amount the book value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeds its estimated fair value as of the date of the impairment test. included in the impairment test are assumptions, for each trade name, regarding the related revenue streams attributable to the trade names which are determined consistent with the forecasting process described above, the royalty rate, and the discount rate applied. based on the company indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment analysis performed during the second quarter of 2009, the company incurred an impairment charge of $147 million in the petroleum services supplies segment related to a partial impairment of the company grant prideco trade name. the impairment charge was primarily the result of the substantial decline in worldwide rig counts through june 2009, declines in forecasts in rig activity for the remainder of 2009, 2010, and 2011 compared to rig count forecast at the beginning of 2009 and a decline in the revenue forecast for the drill pipe business unit for the remainder of 2009, 2010, and 2011. during the fourth quarter of 2009, the company further updated its impairment testing using current operating forecasts and discounted cash flows. in the third and fourth quarters of 2009, both rig activity and commodity prices began to increase. rig count increased 4% to an average of 2,130 in the third quarter and increased another 13% to an average of 2,397 in the fourth quarter. average west texas intermediate crude prices reached $76.06 in the fourth quarter of 2009, an increase of 28% from an average of $59.44 in the second quarter of 2009. in addition, by the end of the fourth quarter, average natural gas prices increased to $4.34, a 17% increase from the second quarter 2009 average of $3.71. the company performed its annual impairment analysis for its goodwill and indefinite-lived assets during the fourth quarter of 2010 resulting in no impairment. the valuation techniques used in the annual test were consistent with those used during previous testing. the inputs used in the annual test were updated for current market conditions and forecasts. 47 along with the normal impairment analysis, the company performed a sensitivity analysis on the projected results, the goodwill and the other indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment analysis assuming revenue for each individual reporting unit for goodwill and each individual indefinite-lived intangible asset decreased an additional 20% from the current projections for 2011, 2012 and 2013, while holding all other factors constant and no impairment was identified. additionally, if the company were to increase its discount rate 100 basis points, while keeping all other assumptions constant, there would be no impairments in any of the goodwill associated with the company reporting units or any of the company indefinite-lived intangible assets. while the company does not believe that these events (20% drop in additional revenue for the next three years or 100 basis point increases in weighted average costs of capital) or changes are likely to occur, it is reasonably possible these events could transpire if market conditions worsen and if the market fails to continue to recover in 2011 and/or 2012. any significant changes to these assumptions and factors could have a material impact on the company goodwill impairment analysis. service and product warranties the company provides service and warranty policies on certain of its products. the company accrues liabilities under service and warranty policies based upon specific claims and a review of historical warranty and service claim experience in accordance with asc topic 450 contingencies ( asc topic 450 ). adjustments are made to accruals as claim data and historical experience change. in addition, the company incurs discretionary costs to service its products in connection with product performance issues and accrues for them when they are encountered. at december 31, 2010 and 2009, service and product warranties totaled $215 million and $217 million, respectively. income taxes the company is a u.s. registered company and is subject to income taxes in the u.s. the company operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. income taxes have been provided based upon the tax laws and rates of the countries in which the company operates and income is earned. the company annual tax provision is based on expected taxable income, statutory rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. the determination and evaluation of the annual tax provision and tax positions involves the interpretation of the tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which the company operates. it requires significant judgment and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events such as the amount, timing and character of income, deductions and tax credits. changes in tax laws, regulations, and treaties, foreign currency exchange restrictions or the company level of operations or profitability in each jurisdiction could impact the tax liability in any given year. the company also operates in many jurisdictions where the tax laws relating to the pricing of transactions between related parties are open to interpretation, which could potentially result in aggressive tax authorities asserting additional tax liabilities with no offsetting tax recovery in other countries. the company maintains liabilities for estimated tax exposures in jurisdictions of operation. the annual tax provision includes the impact of income tax provisions and benefits for changes to liabilities that the company considers appropriate, as well as related interest. tax exposure items primarily include potential challenges to intercompany pricing and certain operating expenses that may not be deductible in foreign jurisdictions. these exposures are resolved primarily through the settlement of audits within these tax jurisdictions or by judicial means. the company is subject to audits by federal, state and foreign jurisdictions which may result in proposed assessments. the company believes that an appropriate liability has been established for estimated exposures under the guidance in asc topic 740 income taxes (asc topic 740 ). however, actual results may differ materially from these estimates. the company reviews these liabilities quarterly and to the extent audits or other events result in an adjustment to the liability accrued for a prior year, the effect will be recognized in the period of the event. the company currently has recorded valuation allowances that the company intends to maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. income tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in the company valuation allowances. the realization of remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that the company record an additional valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. an increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on future earnings. the company has not provided for deferred taxes on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries that are permanently reinvested. should the company make a distribution from the unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries, the company may be required to record additional taxes. unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries were $2,503 million and $2,764 million at december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the company makes an annual determination whether to permanently reinvest these earnings. if, as a result of these reassessments, the company distributes these earnings in the future, additional tax liability would result, offset by any available foreign tax credits. 48 recently issued accounting standards in january 2010, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued accounting standards update ( asu ) no. 2010-06 improving disclosures about fair value measurements ( asu no. 2010-06 ) as an update to accounting standards codification topic 820, fair value measurements and disclosures ( asc topic 820 ). asu no. 2010-06 requires additional disclosures about transfers between levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy and disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the roll forward of activity in level 3 fair value measurements. asu no. 2010-06 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after december 15, 2009, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the rollforward of activity in level 3 fair value measurements. those disclosures are effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2010, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. the company adopted the required provisions of asu no. 2010-06 in the first quarter of 2010. there was no significant impact to the company consolidated financial statements from the adopted provisions of asu no. 2010-06. forward looking statements some of the information in this document contains, or has incorporated by reference, forward-looking statements. statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements typically are identified by use of terms such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate, and similar words, although some forward-looking statements are expressed differently. all statements herein regarding expected merger synergies are forward looking statements. you should be aware that our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including but not limited to changes in oil and gas prices, customer demand for our products and worldwide economic activity. you should also consider carefully the statements under risk factors which address additional factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. given these uncertainties, current or prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to update any such factors or forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. 49 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have extensive operations in foreign countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the company reported foreign currency gains (losses) of ($30) million, ($79) million, and $50 million, respectively. the gains and losses are primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency and adjustments to our hedged positions as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. strengthening of currencies against the u.s. dollar may create losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the countries using the local currency as their functional currency. some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. similarly some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated u.s. dollar costs, which also give rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. the following table details the company foreign currency exchange risk grouped by functional currency and their expected maturity periods as of december 31, 2010 (in millions except for rates): as of december 31, 2010 december 31, functional currency 2011 2012 2013 total 2009 cad buy usd/sell cad: notional amount to buy (in canadian dollars) 267 267 291 average cad to usd contract rate 1.0072 1.0072 1.0418 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) 2 sell usd/buy cad: notional amount to sell (in canadian dollars) 55 55 69 average cad to usd contract rate 1.0237 1.0237 1.1109 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars 1 1 4 eur buy usd/sell eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 1 1 98 average usd to eur contract rate 1.3884 1.3884 1.4356 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 68 6 74 91 average usd to eur contract rate 1.3110 1.3924 1.3172 1.3896 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars 1 1 4 krw sell eur/buy krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 273 273 5,050 average krw to eur contract rate 1,742.53 1,742.53 1,639.00 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars 50 as of december 31, 2010 december 31, functional currency 2011 2012 2013 total 2009 sell usd/buy krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 63,603 3,415 639 67,657 153,226 average krw to usd contract rate 1,084.66 1,118.68 1,020.25 1,085.68 1,046.00 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars (3 ) (3 ) (18 ) gbp buy usd/sell gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 11 average usd to gbp contract rate 1.5880 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 47 2 49 2 average usd to gbp contract rate 1.4924 1.5478 1.4952 1.5313 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars 2 2 usd buy dkk/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 19 19 44 average dkk to usd contract rate 5.5064 5.5064 5.1219 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars (1 ) buy eur/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 221 3 224 382 average usd to eur contract rate 1.3240 1.3519 1.3243 1.4578 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars (7 ) buy gbp/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 18 18 76 average usd to gbp contract rate 1.5724 1.5724 1.6348 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars (2 ) buy nok/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 504 306 810 1,094 average nok to usd contract rate 6.1877 6.2260 6.2022 6.2269 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars 21 11 32 67 sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 8 8 6 average dkk to usd contract rate 5.5998 5.5998 5.0009 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars sell eur/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 58 8 66 56 average usd to eur contract rate 1.3406 1.3546 1.3423 1.4324 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars 1 1 sell nok/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 224 5 229 408 average nok to usd contract rate 6.1255 6.2539 6.1282 5.8307 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars (7 ) (7 ) sell rub/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 25 25 average rub to usd contract rate 31.2030 31.2030 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) dkk sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 113 113 average dkk to usd contract rate 5.6618 5.6618 fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars other currencies fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) total fair value at december 31, 2010 in u.s. dollars 13 11 24 49 51 the company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies for transactional exposures totaling $240 million and translation exposures totaling $657 million as of december 31, 2010 excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on the transactional exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect net income by $16 million and the transactional exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect the future fair value by $66 million. the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. during the first quarter of 2010, the venezuelan government officially devalued the venezuelan bolivar against the u.s. dollar. as a result the company converted its venezuela ledgers to u.s. dollar functional currency, devalued monetary assets resulting in a $27 million charge, and wrote-down certain accounts receivable in view of deteriorating business conditions in venezuela, resulting in an additional $11 million charge. the company net investment in venezuela was $28 million at december 31, 2010. interest rate risk at december 31, 2010 our long term borrowings consisted of $150 million in 6.5% senior notes, $200 million in 7.25% senior notes, $200 million in 5.65% senior notes, $150 million in 5.5% senior notes and $151 million in 6.125% senior notes. we occasionally have borrowings under our credit facility, and a portion of these borrowings could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either libor, nibor or euribor, or at the prime interest rate. under our credit facility, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or euribor for 30 days to six months.risk factors and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview of oil and gas well construction processes oil and gas wells are usually drilled by drilling contractors using a drilling rig. a bit is attached to the end of a drill stem, which is assembled by the drilling rig and its crew from 30 or 45-foot joints of drill pipe and specialized drilling components known as downhole tools. using the conventional rotary drilling method, the drill stem is turned from the rotary table of the drilling rig by torque applied to the kelly, which is screwed into the top of the drill stem. increasingly, drilling is performed using a drilling motor, which is attached to the bottom of the drill stem and provides rotational force directly to the bit, or a top drive, a device suspended from the derrick that turns the entire drill stem, rather than such force being supplied by the rotary table. the use of drilling motors and top drives permits the drilling contractor to drill directionally, including horizontally. the company sells and rents drilling motors, drill bits, downhole tools and drill pipe through wellbore technologies, and sells top drives through rig systems. heavy drilling fluids, or drilling muds , are pumped down the drill stem and forced out through jets in the bit. the drilling mud returns to the surface through the space between the borehole wall and the drill stem, carrying with it the rock cuttings drilled out by the bit. the cuttings are removed from the mud by a solids control system (which can include shakers, centrifuges and other specialized equipment) and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. the solids control system permits the mud, which is often comprised of expensive chemicals, to be continuously reused and re-circulated back into the hole. rig systems sells the large mud pumps that are used to pump drilling mud through the drill stem, down and back up the hole. wellbore technologies sells and rents solids control equipment; and provides solids control, waste management and drilling fluids services. many operators internally coat the drill stem to improve its hydraulic efficiency and protect it from corrosive fluids sometimes encountered during drilling, and inspect and assess the integrity of the drill pipe from time to time. wellbore technologies manufactures and sells drill pipe and provides drill pipe inspection, coating, and hard-banding services. as the hole depth increases, the kelly must be removed frequently so that additional joints of drill pipe can be added to the drill stem. when the bit becomes dull or the equipment at the bottom of the drill stem including the drilling motors otherwise requires servicing, the entire drill stem is pulled out of the hole and disassembled by disconnecting the joints of drill pipe. these are set aside or racked , the old bit is replaced or service is performed, and the drill stem is reassembled and lowered back into the hole (a process called tripping ). during drilling and tripping operations, joints of drill pipe must be screwed together and tightened ( made up ), and loosened and unscrewed ( spun out ). rig systems provides drilling equipment to manipulate and maneuver the drill pipe in this manner. when the hole has reached certain depths, all of the drill pipe is pulled out of the hole and larger diameter pipe known as casing is lowered into the hole and permanently cemented in place in order to protect against collapse and contamination of the hole. the casing is typically inspected before it is lowered into the hole, another service provided by wellbore technologies. completion &amp; production solutions manufactures pressure pumping equipment that is used to cement the casing in place. the rig hoisting system raises and lowers the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and lowers casing into the wellbore. a conventional hoisting system is a block and tackle mechanism that works within the drilling rig derrick. the mechanism is lifted by a series of pulleys that are attached to the drawworks at the base of the derrick. rig systems sells and installs drawworks and pipe hoisting systems. 3 during the course of normal drilling operations, the drill stem passes through different geological formations which exhibit varying pressure characteristics. if this pressure is not contained, oil, gas and/or water would flow out of these formations to the surface. containing reservoir pressures is accomplished primarily by the circulation of heavy drilling muds and secondarily by blowout preventers ( bops ), should the mud prove inadequate in an emergency situation. rig systems sells blowout preventers. drilling muds are carefully designed to exhibit certain qualities that optimize the drilling process. in addition to containing formation pressure, they must provide power to the drilling motor; carry drilled solids to the surface; protect the drilled formations from being damaged; and, cool the drill bit. achieving these objectives often requires a formulation specific to a given well and can involve the use of expensive chemicals as well as natural materials, such as certain types of clay. the fluid itself is often oil, or more expensive synthetic mud. given the cost, it is highly desirable to reuse as much of the drilling mud as possible. solids control equipment such as shale shakers, centrifuges, cuttings dryers, and mud cleaners help accomplish this objective. wellbore technologies rents, sells, operates and services this equipment. drilling muds are formulated based on expected drilling conditions. however, as the hole is drilled, the drill stem may encounter a high pressure zone where the mud density is inadequate to maintain sufficient pressure. should efforts to weight up the mud in order to contain such a pressure kick fail, a blowout could result, whereby reservoir fluids would flow uncontrolled into the well. a series of high-pressure valves known as blowout preventers are positioned at the top of the well and, when activated, form tight seals that prevent the escape of fluids to the surface. when closed, conventional bops prevent normal rig operations so the bops are activated only if drilling mud and normal well control procedures cannot safely contain the pressure. the operations of the rig and the condition of the drilling mud are closely monitored by various sensors, which measure operating parameters such as the weight on the rig hook, the incidence of pressure kicks, the operation of the drilling mud pumps, etc. wellbore technologies sells and rents drilling rig instrumentation packages that perform these monitoring functions. during drilling operations the drilling rig and related equipment and tools are subject to severe stresses, pressures and temperatures, as well as a corrosive environment, and require regular repair and maintenance. rig aftermarket supplies spare parts and can dispatch field service engineers with the expertise to quickly repair and maintain equipment, minimizing down time. after the well has reached its total depth and the final section of casing has been set, the drilling rig is moved off and the well is prepared to begin producing oil or gas in a process known as well completion. well completion usually involves installing production tubing concentrically in the casing. due to the corrosive nature of many produced fluids, production tubing is often inspected and coated, services offered by wellbore technologies. sometimes operators choose to use corrosion resistant composite materials or alloys, sold by completion &amp; production solutions. from time to time, a producing well may undergo workover procedures to extend its life and/or increase its production rate. workover rigs are used to disassemble the wellhead, tubing and other completion components of an existing well in order to stimulate or remediate the well. workover rigs are similar to drilling rigs in their capabilities to handle tubing, but are usually smaller and somewhat less sophisticated. the company offers a comprehensive range of workover rigs through rig systems. tubing and sucker rods removed from a well during a well remediation operation are often inspected to determine their suitability to be reused in the well, a service wellbore technologies provides. frequently, coiled tubing units or wireline units are used to accomplish certain well remediation operations or well completions. coiled tubing is a recent advancement in petroleum technology consisting of a continuous length of reeled steel tubing which can be injected concentrically into the production tubing all the way to the bottom of most wells. it permits many operations to be performed without disassembling the production tubing, and without curtailing the production of the well. wireline winch units are devices that utilize single-strand or multi-strand wires to perform well remediation operations, such as lowering tools and transmitting data to the surface. the completion &amp; production solutions segment manufactures and sells various types of coiled tubing and wireline equipment and tools. 4 rig systems the company rig systems segment makes and supports the capital equipment and integrated systems needed to drill oil and gas wells on land and offshore. the segment designs, manufactures, and sells land rigs, complete offshore drilling equipment packages, and drilling rig components that mechanize and automate many complex rig processes. equipment and technologies in rig systems include: power transmission systems, like drives and generators; substructures, derricks, and masts; pipe lifting, racking, rotating, and assembly systems; pressure control equipment, including blowout preventers; cranes; and rig instrumentation and control systems. land rig packages . the company designs, manufactures, assembles, upgrades, and supplies equipment sets to a variety of land drilling rigs, including those specifically designed to operate in harsh environments such as the arctic circle and the desert. our key land rig product names include the drake rig , ideal rig and rapid rig tm . the company recent rig packages are designed to be safer and fast moving, to utilize ac technology, and to reduce manpower required to operate a rig. top drives . the tds top drive drilling system, originally introduced by the company in 1982, significantly altered the traditional drilling process. the tds rotates the drill stem from its top, rather than by the rotary table, with a large electric motor affixed to rails installed in the derrick that traverses the length of the derrick to the rig floor, eliminating the conventional rotary table for drilling. components of the tds also are used to connect additional joints of drill pipe to the drill stem during drilling operations, enabling the use of three or four pre-connected joints of drill pipe at a time, compared to traditional drilling with one joint of drill pipe. additionally, the tds facilitates horizontal and extended reach drilling. electric rig motors. the company has helped lead the application of ac motor technology in the oilfield industry. the company buys motors from third parties and builds them in its own facilities and is further developing motor technology, including the introduction of permanent magnet drilling motors for use in top drives, cranes, mud pumps, winches, and drawworks. rotary equipment . the alternative to using a tds to rotate the drill stem is to use a rotary table, which rotates the pipe at the floor of the rig. rig systems produces rotary tables as well as kelly and master bushings. in 1998, the company introduced the rotary support table for use on rigs with a tds. the rotary support table is used in concert with the tds to completely eliminate the need for the larger conventional rotary table. pipe handling systems . pipe racking systems are used to handle drill pipe, casing and tubing on a drilling rig. vertical pipe racking systems move drill pipe and casing between the well and a storage ( racking ) area on the rig floor. horizontal racking systems are used to handle tubulars while stored horizontally (for example, on the pipe deck of an offshore rig) and transport tubulars up to the rig floor and into a vertical position for use in the drilling process. vertical pipe racking systems are used predominantly on offshore rigs and are found on almost all floating rigs. mechanical vertical pipe racking systems greatly reduce the manual effort involved in pipe handling. pipe racking systems, introduced by the company in 1985, provide a fully automated mechanism for handling and racking drill pipe during drilling and tripping operations, spinning and torquing drill pipe, and automatic hoisting and racking of disconnected joints of drill pipe. these functions can be integrated via computer controlled sequencing, and operated by a driller from an environmentally secure cabin. an important element of this system is the iron roughneck, which was originally introduced by the company in 1976 and is an automated device that makes pipe connections on the rig floor and requires less direct involvement of rig floor personnel in potentially dangerous operations. the automated roughneck is a microprocessor-controlled version of the iron roughneck. horizontal pipe transfer systems were introduced by the company in 1993. they include the pipe deck machine ( pdm ), which is used to manipulate and move stored tubulars; the pipe transfer conveyor ( ptc ), which transports sections of pipe to the rig floor; and a pickup laydown system ( pls ), which raises the pipe to a vertical position for transfer to a vertical racking system. these components may be employed separately, or incorporated together to form a complete horizontal racking system, known as the pipe transfer system ( pts ). pipe handling tools . the company pipe handling tools are designed to enhance the safety, efficiency and reliability of pipe handling operations. many of these tools have provided innovative methods of performing the designated task through mechanization of functions previously performed manually. rig systems manufactures various tools used to grip, hold, raise, and lower pipe, and in the making up and breaking out of drill pipe, workstrings, casing and production tubulars including spinning wrenches, manual tongs, torque wrenches and kelly spinners. 5 mud pumps. mud pumps are high pressure pumps located on the rig that force drilling mud down the drill pipe, through the drill bit, and up the space between the drill pipe and the drilled formation (the annulus ) back to the surface. these pumps, which generate pressures of up to 7,500 psi, must therefore be capable of displacing drilling fluids thousands of feet down and back up the well bore. the conventional mud pump design, known as the triplex pump, uses three reciprocating pistons oriented horizontally. the company has introduced the hex pump, which uses six pumping cylinders, versus the three used in the triplex pump. along with other design features, the greater number of cylinders reduces pulsations (or surges) and increases the output available from a given footprint. reduced pulsation is desirable where downhole measurement equipment is being used during the drilling process, as is often the case in directional drilling. hoisting systems . hoisting systems are used to raise or lower the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and to lower casing into the wellbore. the drawworks, the heart of the hoisting system, is a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line, which is in turn connected to the drill stem at the top of the derrick. the drawworks also plays an important role in keeping the weight on the drill bit at a desired level. this task is particularly challenging on offshore drilling rigs, which are subject to wave motion. to address this, the company has introduced the ahd active heave drilling drawworks which uses computer-controlled motors to compensate for the motion experienced in offshore drilling operations. cranes. the company provides a comprehensive range of crane solutions, with purpose-built products for all segments of the oil and gas industry as well as many other markets. the company has a broad collection of crane brand names with international recognition, and a large staff of engineers specializing in the design of cranes and related equipment. the product range extends from small cargo-handling cranes to the world largest marine cranes. in all, the company provides over twenty crane product lines that include standard model configurations as well as custom-engineered and specialty cranes. motion compensation systems . traditionally, motion compensation equipment is located on top of the drilling rig and serves to stabilize the bit on the bottom of the hole, increasing drilling effectiveness of floating offshore rigs by compensating for wave and wind action. the ahd drawworks, discussed above, was introduced to eliminate weight and improve safety, removing the compensator from the top of the rig and integrating it into the drawworks system. in addition to the ahd drawworks, the company has introduced an active heave compensation ( ahc ) system that goes beyond the capabilities of the ahd drawworks to handle the most severe weather. additionally, the company tensioning systems provide continuous axial tension to the marine riser pipe (larger diameter pipe which connects floating drilling rigs to the well on the ocean floor) and guide lines on floating drilling rigs, tension leg platforms and jack-up drilling rigs. blowout preventers . bops are devices used to seal the space between the drill pipe and the borehole and, if necessary, to also shear the drill pipe itself to prevent blowouts (uncontrolled flows of formation fluids and gases to the surface). rig systems manufactures a wide array of bops used in various applications from deepwater offshore vessels to land rigs. ram and annular bops are back-up devices that are activated only if other techniques for controlling pressure in the wellbore are inadequate. when closed, these devices prevent normal drilling operations. ram bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing rams (thick heavy blocks of steel) against each other across the wellbore. specially designed packers seal around specific sizes of pipe in the wellbore, shear pipe in the wellbore or close off an open hole. annular bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing a rubber packing unit around the drill pipe or kelly or by sealing against itself if nothing is in the hole. in 1998, the company introduced the nxt tm ram type bop which eliminates door bolts, providing significant weight, rig-time, and space savings. its unique features make subsea operation more efficient through faster ram configuration changes. in 2004, the company introduced the lxt tm ram type of bop, which features many of the design elements of the nxt tm , but is targeted at the land market. over the past five years considerable focus has been placed on robustness and reliability in the fundamental design of the equipment with extensive testing being performed in a new r&amp;d facility opened in 2012. in 2013, the company acquired the t3 bop product line, further expanding its market offering of reliable, field proven designs for land based drilling applications. the shearmax tm line of low force bop shear rams released in 2010 add substantial tubular shearing capability to the company line of pressure control equipment, including the capability to shear large drill pipe tool joints, previously unheard of in the industry. this innovative shear blade design utilizes patented puncture technology to reduce the shearing pressures 50% or more and in some cases as much as five times lower. the shearmax blind shear provides a shear-and-seal design for drill pipe, while the casing and tjc shears address casing up to 16 od and most tool joints up to 2 wall thickness, respectively. derricks and substructures. drilling activities are carried out from a drilling rig. a drilling rig consists of one or two derricks; the substructure that supports the derrick(s); and the rig package, which consists of the various pieces of equipment discussed above. rig systems designs, fabricates and services derricks used in both onshore and offshore applications, and substructures used in onshore applications. rig systems also works with shipyards in the fabrication of substructures for offshore drilling rigs. 6 offshore drilling equipment packages. rig systems also provides the above major pieces of equipment in fully integrated equipment packages for offshore drilling rigs. by purchasing an entire drilling equipment package customers reap the benefits of rig systems integrated package engineering and installation and commissioning expertise, alleviating many of the potential problems of sourcing complex equipment that must work together from multiple vendors. customers and competition. rig systems sells directly to drilling contractors, rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumping companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and also through distribution companies. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. the products of rig systems are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or improved availability and delivery. the segment primary competitors are mhwirth; aker solutions; american electric technologies; american block; axon energy products; bentec; bomco; canrig (a division of nabors industries); cavins oil well tools; cameron international; den-con tool company; forum energy technologies; general electric; hitec products; honghua; huisman; liebherr; parveen industries; omron corporation; rolls royce; siemens; stewart &amp; stevenson; soilmec and drillmec (a part of the trevi group); seatrax; tesco corporation; w&auml;rtsil&auml; and weatherford international. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting rig systems are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of spare parts and consumables, breadth of product line and price. 7 rig aftermarket the company rig aftermarket segment provides comprehensive aftermarket products and services to support a large installed base of land and offshore rigs, and drilling rig components manufactured by the company rig systems segment. the segment provides spare parts, repair, and rentals as well as technical support, field service and first well support, field engineering, and customer training through a network of aftermarket service and repair facilities strategically located in major areas of drilling operations. spare parts rig aftermarket maintains an inventory of spare parts, manufactured by rig systems, across a global network of aftermarket service and repair facilities. technical support rig aftermarket technical support centers troubleshoot and resolve equipment needs for customers. cross-disciplinary teams work together with field service technicians and subject matter experts to keep customers rigs in operation and utilize web-based applications to record, manage, and resolve issues. field service field service engineers actively support rig equipment and technologies on location. based across a global network of aftermarket service and repair facilities, field service engineers can be deployed to operating sites worldwide to resolve equipment issues, whether structural, mechanical, electrical, or software-related. repair rig aftermarket overhauls, repairs, rebuilds, and recertifies equipment to quality assurance and oem specifications using only oem parts. ehawk remote support a subscription service available to customers, ehawk support centers provide fast issue response times. using satellite and computer technology, ehawk support centers can diagnose equipment status and work to handle issues remotely, reducing service personnel visits to the field. ehawk utilizes web-based applications to record, manage, and resolve issues. field engineering rig aftermarket field engineering supports customers by providing rig-specific designs, modifications, and solutions as needed. services include rig surveys, proposal and design drawings, service manuals, and equipment installation. training centers and technical colleges rig aftermarket training centers offering training for all equipment and technologies designed and manufactured by rig systems. training centers offer a varied curriculum that incorporates hands-on experience, use of equipment simulators, automated classrooms, and enhanced animations with cross-sectional cutouts. customers and competition. rig aftermarket supports land and offshore drillers. demand for the segment products and services depends on overall levels of oilfield drilling activity, which drives demand for spare parts, service, and repair for rig system large installed base of equipment; and secondarily on drilling contractors and oil and gas companies capital spending plans, specifically capital expenditures on rig refurbishments and re-certifications. the products of rig aftermarket are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or improved availability and delivery. the segment primary competitors are mhwirth; american electric technologies; american block; axon energy products; bentec; bomco; canrig (a division of nabors industries); cavins oil well tools; cameron international; den-con tool company; forum energy technologies; general electric; hitec products; honghua; huisman liebherr; parveen industries; omron corporation; rolls royce; siemens; stewart &amp; stevenson; soilmec and drillmec (a part of the trevi group); seatrax; sparrows offshore; subsea solutions; tesco corporation; w&auml;rtsil&auml; and weatherford international. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting rig aftermarket are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of spare parts and consumables, breadth of product line and price. 8 wellbore technologies the company wellbore technologies segment designs, manufactures, rents and sells a variety of equipment and technologies used to perform drilling operations, and offers services that optimize their performance, including: solids control and waste management equipment and services, drilling fluids, premium drill pipe, wired pipe, tubular inspection and coating services, instrumentation, downhole tools, and drill bits. the wellbore technologies segment focuses on oil and gas companies and supports drilling contractors, oilfield service companies, and oilfield rental companies. demand for wellbore technologies products and services primarily depends on the level of oilfield drilling activity by oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, and oilfield service companies. drill pipe products. the company designs, manufactures, and sells a full range of proprietary and api drill stem products used for the drilling of oil and gas wells. a drilling rig typically carries an inventory of 10,000 to 30,000 feet of drill pipe, which is consumed over time by the drilling process. during the drilling process, motors mounted on the rig rotate the drill pipe, bottom-hole assembly, and drill bit. in addition to driving the drill bit, drill pipe serves as the conduit for drilling fluids. the company offers a broad line of premium drilling products designed for the drilling of extended reach, directional, horizontal, deepwater, and ultra-deep wells in both international and domestic markets. voest-alpine tubulars ( vat ) . vat is a joint venture between the company and the austrian based voest-alpine group. the company has a 50.01% investment in the joint venture which is located in kindberg, austria. vat owns a tubular mill with an annual capacity of approximately 380,000 metric tons and is the primary supplier of green tubes for our u.s. based production. vat is accounted for under the equity-method of accounting due to the minority owner having substantive participating rights. tubular coating . the company develops, manufactures and applies its proprietary tubular coatings, known as tube-kote &reg; coatings, to new and used downhole tubulars and line pipe. tubular coatings help prevent corrosion, which extends the life of tubular assets, and reduces expensive interruptions in production. in addition, coatings are designed to increase the fluid flow rate up to 25%. tubular inspection. newly manufactured pipe may have serious defects that are not detected at the mill, and pipe can be damaged during handling prior to use at the well site. exploration and production companies have new tubulars inspected before they are placed in service to reduce the risk of tubular failures during drilling, completion, or production. used tubulars are inspected to detect service-induced flaws. tubular inspection techniques include electromagnetic, ultrasonic, magnetic flux leakage and gamma ray. inspection services are provided by mobile units at the wellhead as used tubing is removed from a well, and at fixed site locations. mill systems and sales. the company engineers and fabricates inspection equipment for steel mills, which it sells and rents. the equipment is used for quality control purposes to detect defects in the pipe during the high-speed manufacturing process. each piece of mill inspection equipment is designed to customer specifications and is installed and serviced by the company. machining services. the company offers a variety of machining services including: thread repair, tool joint rebuilding and sub manufacturing, providing a one-stop-shop concept for its drill pipe customers. drilling and intervention. the company combines a wide array of drilling and intervention tools with drilling, coring, borehole enlargement and other services. the broad spectrum of bottom hole assembly ( bha ) components offered is the result of the strategic consolidation of key acquisitions. the company manufactures fixed cutter and roller cone drill bits and services its customer base in virtually every significant oil and gas producing region of the world. the company designs, manufacturers and services a wide array of downhole motors which are capable of achieving higher rotary velocities than can generally be achieved using conventional surface rotary equipment. the agitator oscillation tool improves weight transfer to the bit and increases the boundaries of extended reach and horizontal drilling. through its coring services business line, the company enables the extraction of actual rock samples from a drilled well bore and allows geologists to examine the formations at the surface. the company is well positioned to address the sustained growth of intervention and well workovers with a comprehensive offering of leading fishing and thru-tubing tools. we sell and rent tools to perform retrieval of stuck tools and remove debris, mill bridge plugs and other devices and manipulate well flow control. 9 dynamic drilling solutions. the company dynamic drilling solutions combines product lines that are focused on instrumentation, etools, data-driven solutions, managed pressure drilling, and drilling automation and optimization. dynamic drilling solutions generates, collects, aggregates, communicates, and analyzes drilling data to provide our customers effective solutions for their well environments. instrumentation. the company instrumentation business provides drilling rig operators real time measurement and monitoring of critical parameters required to improve rig safety and efficiency. the company measurement and monitoring systems combine leading hardware and software technologies into an integrated drilling rig package. access of drilling data is provided to offsite locations, enabling company personnel to monitor drilling operations through a secure link. directional sensors, steering tools, magnetic multi-shot tools and electromagnetic measurement-while-drilling systems are offered by the company. these directional etools provide measurements and store the data in memory or use a telemetry pathway to transmit downhole data to the surface. at the surface this data is analyzed to optimize well trajectory and improve the drilling rate-of-penetration. managed pressure drilling equipment and support services enable improved kick detection and help manage wellbore pressures during drilling to permit accessing reserves in certain areas using chokes, manifolds, rotating control devices, continuous circulation systems, downhole sensors and optimized control systems. solids control and waste management . the company offers highly-engineered equipment, and services to separate and manage drill cuttings produced by the drilling process ( solids control ). drill cuttings are usually contaminated with petroleum or drilling fluids, and must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. wellsite services manufactures state-of-the-art patented solids control equipment. upon the separation of the drill cuttings wellsite services provides waste management, including transport and storage. fluids services. the company is engaged in the provision of drilling fluid systems, drilling fluid products, completion fluids and other related services. drilling fluids are used to maintain well bore stability while drilling, control downhole pressure, lubricate and cool the drill bit, suspend and release cuttings, and transmit hydraulic energy to drilling tools and bit. wellsite services provides water and oil based drilling fluids portable power. the portable power division provides rental generators, lighting and other accessories for use in the upstream oil and gas industry, refinery and petrochemical operations, construction sites, events, disaster relief and other industries. nov intelliserv. nov intelliserv is a joint venture between the company and schlumberger, ltd. in which the company holds a 55% interest and maintains operational control. nov intelliserv manufactures wellbore data transmission products used to deliver high-speed communication up and down the drill string. customers and competition. customers for wellbore technologies include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield equipment and product distributors and other manufacturers, oilfield service companies, steel mills, and other industrial companies. the company competitors include: baker hughes; drill pipe masters; frank international; future pipe; halliburton; hanwei; hilong; patterson tubular services; precision tube; shawcor; schlumberger; superior energy services; texas steel conversion; vallourec &amp; mannesmann and weatherford international, along with a number of smaller regional competitors. 10 completion &amp; production solutions the company completion &amp; production solutions segment integrates technologies for well completions and oil and gas production. the segment designs, manufactures, and sells equipment and technologies needed for hydraulic fracture stimulation, including pressure pumping trucks and pumps, blenders, sanders, hydration units, injection units, flowline, manifolds and wellheads; well intervention, including coiled tubing units, coiled tubing, and wireline units and tools; offshore production, including composite pipe, process equipment, floating production systems and subsea production technologies; and, onshore production including surface transfer and progressive cavity pumps, positive displacement reciprocating pumps, pressure vessels, and artificial lift systems. completion &amp; production solutions primarily supports service companies and oil and gas companies. demand for completion &amp; production solutions products depends on the level of oilfield completions and workover activity by oilfield service companies and drilling contractors and capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and oilfield service companies. coiled tubing equipment . coiled tubing consists of flexible steel tubing manufactured in a continuous string and spooled on a reel. it can extend several thousand feet in length and is run in and out of the wellbore at a high rate of speed by a hydraulically operated coiled tubing unit. a coiled tubing unit is typically mounted on a truck, semi-trailer or skid (steel frames on which portable equipment is mounted to facilitate handling with cranes for offshore use) and consists of a hydraulically operated tubing reel or drum, an injector head which pushes or pulls the tubing in or out of the wellbore, and various power and control systems. coiled tubing is typically used with sophisticated pressure control equipment which permits the operator to perform workover operations on a live well. the completion &amp; production solutions segment manufactures and sells both coiled tubing units and the ancillary pressure control equipment used in these operations. currently, most coiled tubing units are used in well remediation and completion applications. the company believes that advances in the manufacturing process of coiled tubing, tubing fatigue protection and the capability to manufacture larger diameter and increased wall thickness coiled tubing strings have resulted in increased uses and applications for these products. for example, some well operators are now using coiled tubing in drilling applications such as slim-hole re-entries of existing wells. wireline equipment . the company wireline products include wireline drum units, which consist of a spool or drum of wireline cable, mounted in a mobile vehicle or skid, which works in conjunction with a source of power (an engine mounted in the vehicle or within a separate power pack skid). the wireline drum unit is used to spool wireline cable into or out of a well, in order to perform surveys inside the well, sample fluids from the bottom of the well, retrieve or replace components from inside the well, or to perform other well remediation or survey operations. the wireline used may be slick line , which is conventional single-strand steel cable used to convey tools in or out of the well, or electric line , which contains an imbedded single-conductor or multi-conductor electrical line which permits communication between the surface and electronic instruments attached to the end of the wireline at the bottom of the well. wireline units are usually used in conjunction with a variety of pressure control equipment which permits safe access into wells while they are flowing and under pressure at the surface. the company engineers and manufactures a broad range of pressure control equipment for wireline operations, including wireline blowout preventers, strippers, packers, lubricators and grease injection units. additionally, the company makes wireline rigging equipment such as mast trucks, and skidded masts for offshore rig-up. stimulation equipment . the company stimulation products include fracturing pumps, acid units, frac blenders, frac control systems, sand handling systems, combo units, hydration and chemical additive systems as well as services and parts. additionally, the company sells, services, and rents wellheads, frac trees, portable flow line, and well testing equipment. turret mooring systems. the company designs and manufacturers turret mooring systems and spread moored systems, and other products for floating production, storage and offloading ( fpsos ) and other offshore vessels and terminals. a turret mooring system consists of a geostatic part attached to the seabed and a rotating part integrated in the hull of the fpso, which are connected and allow the ship to weathervane (rotate) around the turret during production. flexible pipe systems. the company designs and manufactures flexible pipe products and systems for the offshore oil and gas industry, including products associated with fpso and other offshore production platforms, as well as subsea production systems including flexible risers, flowlines and jumpers. the product range consists of flexible pipe solutions from 2 16 , designed to operate under very demanding offshore conditions in all parts of the world. the products remain flexible even under very high working pressure, up to 1,000 bars, and at the same time they are able to withstand working temperatures from minus 50&deg; centigrade up to +130&deg; centigrade. flexible pipe systems are superior to other pipe solutions in respect of flexibility, ability to withstand different design conditions and capability to convey challenging mixtures of liquid and gaseous fluids. the company products are qualified for use in water depths down to 2,000 meters. the company also supplies a wide range of additional equipment such as accessories and steel structures required in a given system configuration. 11 fiberglass &amp; composite tubulars. the company designs, manufactures and markets filament-wound and molded fiberglass pipe and fittings as well as spoolable fiberglass pipe. these products are used by a wide range of petroleum, petrochemical and other industrial fluid and gas processing industries; for service station piping systems; aboard marine vessels, fpsos and offshore oil platforms; and, are marketed as an alternative to metallic piping systems which ultimately fail under corrosive operating conditions. some producers manage the corrosive fluids found in oil and gas fields by utilizing composite or fiberglass tubing, casing and line pipe in their operations. the company is a provider of high pressure fiberglass tubulars used in oilfield applications to prevent corrosion. the company manufactures fiberglass pipe under the star brand, and was the first manufacturer of high-pressure fiberglass pipe to be licensed by api in 1992. fiberspar, which is now part of the company fiberglass business, manufactures and sells fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe to the oil and gas industry. this fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe provides a reliable, corrosion-resistant, cost-effective solution for tubulars used during the production and transportation of oil and gas. xl systems. the company xl systems product line offers the customer an integrated package of large-bore tubular products and services for offshore or deep onshore wells. this product line includes the company proprietary line of wedge thread connections on large-bore tubulars and related engineering and design services. the company provides this product line for drive pipe, jet strings and conductor casing. the company produces large-bore tubulars with a high-strength, high-fatigue viper weld-on connector for use in deep-water and other environments where an extremely robust connector is needed. the company also offers service personnel in connection with the installation of all of these products. process and production technologies. the company serves its customers in various industrial and oil and gas markets by designing, manufacturing and distributing key products including pumping technologies (reciprocating, multistage surface, and progressive cavity pumps), process equipment (dynamic oil recovery, water treatment, sand handling, separation and crude / gas handling), artificial lift solutions (stuffing boxes, drive heads, pcp, control boxes, polished rod accessories, and hydraulic pumping units), mixing and agitation equipment, heat exchangers, pipeline products (closures, expanding gate valves, and plug valves) and general oilfield products (critical service hookups, pumping tees, and production bop s). these products are used by a highly diversified customer base with presence in oil and gas and industrial markets, which include waste water treatment, mining, chemical processing, paper and pulp, agriculture, food and beverage, among others. the group supports its international market and customer base through a mixed channel to market model, which includes both direct sales and separate partnership relationships. pumps &amp; expendables . the company designs, manufactures, and sells pumps and expendables that are used in oil and gas drilling operations, well service operations, production applications, as well as industrial applications. these pumps include reciprocating positive displacement piston and plunger pumps and high pressure mud pumps. these pumps are sold as individual units and unitized packages with drivers, controls and piping. the company also manufactures fluid end expendables (liners, valves, pistons, and plungers). the company offers popular industry brand names including: wheatley, gaso, national, oilwell, msw, and omega reciprocating pumps. customers and competition. the primary customers for the products and services offered by the completion &amp; productions solutions segment include well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil companies. competitors include: cameron international; circor international; corpro (a division of als); dover; drilquip; fmc technologies; forum energy technologies; ge oil &amp; gas; modec; sbm offshore; stewart &amp; stevenson; technip; roper industries; and weir group. there are also a large number of regional competitors and, in addition, the completion &amp; production solutions segment sells its products and services into highly competitive markets. management believes that on-site support is becoming an important competitive element in this market, and that the principal competitive factors affecting the business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, product availability and technology, breadth of product line and price. 12 2014 dispositions, acquisitions and other investments on may 30, 2014, the company completed the previously announced spin-off of its distribution business into an independent public company named now inc., which trades on the new york stock exchange under the symbol dnow . after the close of the new york stock exchange on may 30, 2014, stockholders of record as of may 22, 2014 (the record date ) received one share of now inc. common stock for every four nov common shares they held as of the record date. no fractional shares of now inc. common stock were distributed. the transfer agent aggregated any fractional shares into whole shares, sold those whole shares in the open market at prevailing rates and distributed the net cash proceeds, after deducting any taxes required to be withheld and brokerage charges and commissions, pro rata to each holder who would otherwise have been entitled to receive fractional shares in the distribution. our operating segments were realigned upon separation of now inc., and as a result, all prior periods are presented on this basis. results of operations related to now inc. have been classified as discontinued operations in all periods presented on form 10-k. during 2014, the company made the following acquisitions: acquisition form operating segment date of transaction industrial rentals, llc asset wellbore technologies march 2014 precision coatings group asset wellbore technologies april 2014 nc machine and fabrication, inc. asset completion &amp; production solutions may 2014 devin international, inc. and greene energia servicos do brasil, ltda. stock completion &amp; production solutions june 2014 condor engineering and manufacturing, llc asset completion &amp; production solutions july 2014 halliburton surface safety valves asset completion &amp; production solutions august 2014 bakker pipe-en repair shop coevorden bv and gebr bakker coevorden bv stock wellbore technologies september 2014 j&amp;m machine, llc asset wellbore technologies october 2014 artex group, llc asset completion &amp; production solutions december 2014 profab engineering, pte. ltd., profab services, pte. ltd. and pt profab indonesia stock completion &amp; production solutions december 2014 the company paid an aggregate purchase price of $291 million, net of cash acquired for acquisitions in 2014. seasonal nature of the company business historically, activity levels of some of the company segments have followed seasonal trends to some degree. in general, rig systems and rig aftermarket have not experienced significant seasonal fluctuation, although orders for new equipment and aftermarket spare parts may be modestly affected by holiday schedules. there can be no guarantee that seasonal effects will not influence future sales in these segments. in canada, wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions typically realized high first quarter activity levels, as operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling and production areas. in past years, certain canadian businesses within wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions have declined during the second quarter due to warming weather conditions which resulted in thawing, softer ground, difficulty accessing drill sites, and road bans that curtailed drilling activity ( canadian breakup ). however, these segments have typically rebounded in the third and fourth quarter. wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions activity in both the u.s. and canada sometimes increases during the third quarter and then peaks in the fourth quarter as operators spend the remaining drilling and/or production capital budgets for that year. wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions revenues in the rocky mountain region sometimes decline in the late fourth quarter or early first quarter due to harsh winter weather. the company fiberglass and composite tubulars business in china has typically declined in the first quarter due to the impact of weather on manufacturing and installation operations, and due to business slowdowns associated with the chinese new year. the company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue. however, there can be no guarantee that spending by the company customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past, or remain the same as in prior years. 13 marketing and distribution network substantially all of rig systems capital equipment and rig aftermarket spare parts sales, and a large portion of our smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through our direct sales force and distribution service centers. sales to foreign oil companies are often made with or through agent or representative arrangements. products within wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions are rented and sold worldwide through our own sales force and through commissioned representatives. the company rig systems and rig aftermarket segments customers include drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumpers, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. rig systems supports land and offshore drillers. demand for rig systems products depends on drilling contractors and oil and gas companies capital spending plans, specifically capital expenditures on rig construction and refurbishment. rig aftermarket supports land and offshore drillers. demand for rig aftermarket products and services primarily depends on overall levels of oilfield drilling activity, which drives demand for spare parts, service, and repair for rig system large installed base of equipment; and secondarily on drilling contractors and oil and gas companies capital spending plans, specifically capital expenditures on rig refurbishment and re-certification. rig systems and rig aftermarket purchases can represent significant capital expenditures, and are often sold as part of a rig fabrication or major rig refurbishment package. sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the company bids jointly with other related product and services providers, such as rig fabrication yards and rig design firms. wellbore technologies customers are predominantly oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, oilfield service companies, and oilfield rental companies. demand for the company wellbore technologies segment products and services primarily depends on the level of oilfield drilling activity by oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, and oilfield service companies. completion &amp; production solutions customers are predominantly service companies and oil and gas companies. demand for the company completion &amp; production solutions segment products depends on the level of oilfield completions and workover activity by oilfield service companies and drilling contractors and capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and oilfield service companies. the company foreign operations, which include significant operations in canada, europe, the far east, the middle east, africa and latin america, are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including foreign currency exchange risks and uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the company operates have adopted policies (or are subject to governmental policies) giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of such policies, the company relies on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationship between the company and such government-owned petroleum companies. although the company has not experienced any material problems in foreign countries arising from nationalistic policies, political instability, economic instability or currency restrictions, there can be no assurance that such a problem will not arise in the future. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding geographic revenue information. research and new product development and intellectual property the company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights. as of december 31, 2014, the company held a substantial number of united states patents and had additional patent applications pending. as of this date, the company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to inventions covered by the united states patents. additionally, the company maintains a substantial number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets. expiration dates of such patents range from 2015 to 2034. the company does not expect significant adverse effects as patents expire. although the company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. the company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenues from new products. 14 manufacturing and service locations the manufacturing processes for the company products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components and testing. most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel. the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. rig systems provides drilling rig components, as well as complete land drilling rigs, and offshore drilling equipment packages. the primary manufacturing facilities are located in houston, galena park, sugar land and pampa, texas; mcalester, oklahoma; orange, california; edmonton, canada; kristiansand, stavanger, sogne, oslo and molde, norway; etten-leur, the netherlands; carquefou, france; mexicali, mexico; shanghai, china; and ulsan, south korea. rig aftermarket provides comprehensive aftermarket products and services to support land rigs and offshore rigs, and drilling rig components manufactured by rig systems. primary facilities are located in houston, texas; lafayette, and new iberia, louisiana; aberdeen and montrose, scotland; singapore; dubai, uae; port elizabeth and cape town, south africa; macae, brazil and luanda, angola. wellbore technologies engineers, manufactures and assembles equipment and products which it rents and sells to customers, and which it uses in providing services. downhole manufactures at facilities in houston and conroe, texas; stonehouse and manchester, u.k; dubai, uae; maca&eacute;, brazil and singapore. drill pipe manufactures at facilities in navasota, texas; veracruz, mexico; singapore; jiangyan and tianjin, china; batam island, indonesia and abu dhabi, uae. tuboscope manufactures tubular inspection and coating products for internal use and for resale in houston, texas, it also renovates and repairs equipment at its manufacturing facilities in houston, celle, germany and buenos aires, argentina. well site services manufactures the brandt solids control product line in conroe, texas and aberdeen, scotland, and produces shale shaker screens for use in solids / fluid separation process in facilities located in conroe; kuala lumpur, malaysia; new iberia, louisiana; leduc, canada and victoria, brazil. intelliserv buys drill pipe from grant prideco navasota, texas facility and ships it to their facility in provo, utah where coax cable is installed. intelliserv engineering team is located at the facility in provo. dynamic drilling solutions manufactures instrumentation and etools from cedar park, austin and stafford, texas and andoversford, u.k. completion &amp; productions solutions integrates technologies for well completions and oil and gas production. pumps and production process equipment are manufactured at facilities in houston, odessa and san angelo, texas; harvey, louisiana; mcalester and tulsa, oklahoma; manchester and newcastle, england; melbourne, australia; dubai, uae: and buenos aires, argentina. fiberglass and composite tubulars and fittings are manufactured at facilities in houston, san antonio, burkburnett and mineral wells, texas; little rock, arkansas; tulsa, oklahoma; wichita, kansas; geldermalsen, the netherlands; betim, brazil; johor, malaysia; singapore and harbin and suzhou, china. the company well intervention and stimulation equipment business brings together engineering and manufacturing divisions in the areas of coiled tubing, nitrogen pumping, snubbing, pressure control, fracturing, cementing, wireline, and associated engineering services. these products are manufactured in anderson, houston and ft worth texas; lafayette, louisiana; duncan, oklahoma; aberdeen, newcastle, and great yarmouth, uk; calgary, canada; dubai, uae; singapore; perth, australia; minsk, belarus; and nievwpoort, nl; flexible pipe for subsea applications is manufactured in denmark and brazil. certain of the company manufacturing facilities and certain of the company products have various certifications, including, iso 9001, api, apex and asme. raw materials the company believes that materials and components used in its servicing and manufacturing operations and purchased for sales are generally available from multiple sources. the prices paid by the company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. the company has experienced rising, declining and stable prices for mild steel and standard grades in line with broader economic activity and has generally seen specialty alloy prices continue to rise, driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. the company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to, and adjusting prices on, the products it sells. furthermore, the company continues to expand its supply base throughout the world to address its customers needs. for 2012 through 2014, the company witnessed flat to slight increases in steel pricing which was somewhat mitigated by improved sourcing and supply chain practices. the company anticipates flat to moderate decreases in steel pricing in 2015. higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. 15 backlog the company monitors its backlog of orders within its rig systems and completion &amp; production solutions segments to guide its planning. backlog includes orders which typically require more than three months to manufacture and deliver. backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. most require reimbursement to the company for costs incurred in such an event. there can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the company will earn a profit on backlog work. backlog for rig systems at december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, was $12.5 billion, $15.0 billion and $10.9 billion, respectively. backlog for completion &amp; production solutions at december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 was $1.8 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. employees at december 31, 2014, the company had a total of 63,642 employees, of which 9,102 were temporary employees. approximately 741 employees in the u.s. are subject to collective bargaining agreements. additionally, certain of the company employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. the company believes its relationship with its employees is good. 16 item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile. the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our products and services depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of production by non-opec countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas; level of production from known reserves; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity; national government political requirements; development of alternate energy sources; and environmental regulations. if there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, or exploration and production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the company will decline. volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could reduce demand for our products. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment. as of december 31, 2014, we had a backlog of capital equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by rig systems and completion &amp; production solutions in the amount of $12.5 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely impact completion of these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties: our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this drilling equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control; financial challenges for consumers of our capital equipment; and credit market conditions for consumers of our capital equipment. 17 the company existing contracts for rig equipment generally carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and the majority do not allow customers to cancel projects for convenience. however, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and earnings: price changes; new product and technology introductions; and improvements in availability and delivery. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. competition in our industry could lead to lower revenues and earnings. we have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy. we have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through acquisitions and investment in internal growth. we anticipate that we will continue to pursue an aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the company or operate any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue. we have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. we cannot assure that we will realize earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors expectations. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future: fluctuations in the oil and gas industry; competition; the ability to service the debt obligations of the company; the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices; the ability to manage and control operating costs of the company; fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the united states and abroad; and the ability to protect our intellectual property rights. 18 there are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability, currency restrictions, and trade and economic sanctions. approximately 70% of our revenues in 2014 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in argentina, canada, brazil, europe, the middle east, china, africa, nigeria, southeast asia, russia, latin america, libya and other international markets. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies or oilfield service companies. our operations outside the united states could also expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states as well as non-u.s. governmental regulatory authorities. the u.s. department of justice ( doj ), the u.s. securities and exchange commission, other u.s. federal agencies and foreign governmental authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), other federal statutes, and foreign anti-bribery, anti-corruption and trade laws. under u.s. trading sanctions laws, the government authorities may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. if any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. our ability to comply with the fcpa and foreign anti-bribery laws is dependent on the success of our ongoing compliance program, including our ability to continue to supervise, train and retain competent employees. our compliance program also depends on the efforts of our employees to comply with applicable law. we could be subject to sanctions and civil and criminal prosecution as well as fines and penalties in the event of a finding of a violation of the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws by us or any of our employees. compliance with, and changes in, laws could be costly and could affect operating results. in addition, government disruptions could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. we have operations in the u.s. and in approximately 70 countries that can be impacted by changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate, including new legislation, new regulations, new policies, investigations and legal proceedings and new interpretations of existing legal rules and regulations, export control laws or exchange control laws, additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries where we operate or intend to operate all could adversely impact our business . further, in some instances, direct or indirect consumers of our products and services, entities providing financing for purchases of our products and services or members of the supply chain for our products and services may become involved in governmental investigations, internal investigations, political or other enforcement matters. in such circumstances, such investigations may adversely impact the ability of consumers of our products, entities providing financial support to such consumers or entities in the supply chain to timely perform their business plans or to timely perform under agreements with us. in the event of such circumstances, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. sanctions imposed by the united states, european union and other countries could adversely impact our business activities in or related to russia and certain russian companies, including prohibitions of certain sales of goods and services, delay in executing construction or manufacturing projects, credit risk and adverse impacts due to currency fluctuations (as discussed below). to date, we have not identified any material adverse financial impact to our business from these sanctions. future trade regulations or sanctions, however, could result in adverse impacts on our operating results and financial condition. we have received u.s. federal grand jury subpoenas and subsequent inquiries from u.s. governmental agencies requesting records related to our compliance with u.s. export trade laws and regulations. we have cooperated fully with agents from the department of justice, the bureau of industry and security, the office of foreign assets control, and u.s. immigration and customs enforcement in responding to the inquiries. we have also cooperated with an informal inquiry from the securities and exchange commission in connection with the inquiries previously made by the aforementioned federal agencies. we have conducted our own internal review of this matter. at the conclusion of our internal review in the fourth quarter of 2009, we identified possible areas of concern and discussed these areas of concern with the relevant agencies. we are currently negotiating a potential resolution with the agencies involved related to these matters. we currently anticipate that any administrative fine or penalty agreed to as part of a resolution would be within established accruals, and would not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. to the extent a resolution is not negotiated as anticipated, we cannot predict the timing or effect that any resulting government actions may have on our financial position or results of operations. the results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we earn revenues, pay expenses, purchase assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including, but not limited to, the canadian dollar, the euro, the british pound sterling, the norwegian krone and the south korean won. approximately 70% of our 2014 revenue was derived from sales outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. thus, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income. because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net exposure to currency exchange fluctuations. we had forward contracts with a notional amount of $5,103 million (with a fair value of a net liability of $346 million) as of december 31, 2014, to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are also subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results. 19 an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings. the company has approximately $8.5 billion of goodwill and $0.5 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2014. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances indicate they might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant reduction in worldwide well remediation activity; a significant reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity; resulting in an increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. see additional discussion on goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets in critical accounting estimates of item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or environmental damage and suspension of operations. our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. 20 even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. the u.s. congress is currently working on legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the united states, which includes establishing cap-and-trade programs. in addition to the pending climate legislation, the u.s. environmental protection agency has proposed regulations that would require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities, and may issue final rules this year. these changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. we had revenues of greater than 10% of total revenue from one of our customers during the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012. the loss of this customer (samsung heavy industries) or a significant reduction in its purchases could adversely affect our future revenues and earnings. samsung heavy industries is a shipyard acting as a general contractor for its customers, who are drillship owners and drilling contractors. this shipyard customers have specified that the company drilling equipment be installed on their drillships and have required the shipyard to issue contracts to the company. the company had revenues of 7% of total revenue from samsung heavy industries for the year ended december 31, 2014. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger systems and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. tax treatment of spin-off. the irs no longer issues private letter rulings regarding whether or not a spin-off transaction qualifies for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. notwithstanding the tax opinions we have received from our legal and tax advisors that the distribution of 100% of the shares of now inc. common stock will qualify as tax-free under such section of the code, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction, as a result of a significant change in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, we and/or our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. 21 glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds ( pdcs ). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. 22 drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe a spoolable glass fiber-reinforced epoxy composite tubular product for onshore oil and gas gathering and injection systems, with superior corrosion resistant properties and lower installed cost than steel. flexible pipe a dynamic riser that connects subsea production equipment to a topside facility allowing for the flow of oil, gas, and/or water. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. fpso a floating production, storage and offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. hydraulic fracturing the process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1. in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four-or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four-or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). 23 kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. compare break out. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. mooring system the method by which a vessel or buoy is fixed to a certain position, whether permanently or temporarily. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment equipment used in: 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. 24 rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shaker see shale shaker shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. tiebacks (subsea) a series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. 25 trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. turret mechanical device that allows a floating vessel to rotate around stationary flowlines, umbilicals, and other associated risers. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. wellhead the termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have extensive operations in foreign countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, the company reported foreign currency gains (losses) were $20 million, ($24) million and ($18) million, respectively. gains and losses are primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency and adjustments to our hedged positions as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. strengthening of currencies against the u.s. dollar may create losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the countries using the local currency as their functional currency. some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. similarly some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated u.s. dollar costs, which also give rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. the following table details the company foreign currency exchange risk grouped by functional currency and their expected maturity periods as of december 31, 2014 (in millions except for rates): as of december 31, 2014 december 31, functional currency 2015 2016 total 2013 cad buy usd/sell cad: notional amount to buy (in canadian dollars) 66 66 229 average usd to cad contract rate 1.1632 1.1632 1.0669 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars 1 sell usd/buy cad: notional amount to sell (in canadian dollars) 285 285 51 average usd to cad contract rate 1.1511 1.1511 1.0230 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars (3 ) (3 ) (1 ) eur buy usd/sell eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 4 4 9 average usd to eur contract rate 0.7933 0.7933 0.7590 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars 1 sell usd/buy eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 425 5 430 344 average usd to eur contract rate 0.7831 0.7832 0.7832 0.7401 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars (25 ) (25 ) 9 sell usd/buy krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 143,488 143,488 195,020 average usd to krw contract rate 1,104 1,104 1,114 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars 10 51 as of december 31, 2014 december 31, functional currency 2015 2016 total 2013 gbp buy usd/sell gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 11 average usd to gbp contract rate 0.6142 0.6142 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 205 205 73 average usd to gbp contract rate 0.6331 0.6201 0.6201 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars (6 ) (6 ) 2 usd buy cad/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 16 16 15 average cad to usd contract rate 0.9135 0.9431 0.9431 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) buy dkk/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 68 7 75 71 average dkk to usd contract rate 0.1789 0.1802 0.1813 0.1813 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars (5 ) (1 ) (6 ) 1 buy eur/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 748 136 884 773 average eur to usd contract rate 1.3347 1.3426 1.3411 1.3411 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars (65 ) (12 ) (77 ) 21 buy gbp/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 141 6 147 42 average gbp to usd contract rate 1.5809 1.6426 1.5779 1.5779 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars (3 ) (3 ) 1 buy nok/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 1,345 616 1,961 1,877 average nok to usd contract rate 0.1556 0.1571 0.1642 0.1642 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars (186 ) (90 ) (276 ) (28 ) buy sgd/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 30 6 36 15 average sgd to usd contract rate 0.7865 0.7925 0.7966 0.7966 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) sell cad/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 2 average cad to usd contract rate 1.3625 1.3625 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 22 22 11 average dkk to usd contract rate 0.1689 1.3625 1.3625 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars 1 1 sell eur/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 245 6 251 190 average eur to usd contract rate 1.2493 1.3772 1.3109 1.3109 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars 6 1 7 (2 ) sell nok/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 307 41 348 385 average nok to usd contract rate 0.1525 0.1623 0.1634 0.1634 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars 37 7 44 6 52 as of december 31, 2014 december 31, functional currency 2015 2016 total 2013 sell sgd/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 2 2 1 average sgd to usd contract rate 0.7678 0.7678 0.8000 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars sell rub/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 64 average rub to usd contract rate 0.0298 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars (1 ) sell sek/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 1 average sek to usd contract rate 0.1529 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars dkk sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 59 59 111 average dkk to usd contract rate 5.93 5.9300 6 fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars other currencies fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars (1 ) total fair value at december 31, 2014 in u.s. dollars (251 ) (95 ) (346 ) 19 the company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies for transactional exposures totaling $206 million and translation exposures totaling $427 million as of december 31, 2014, excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on the transactional exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect net income by $13 million and the translational exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect the future fair value by $42 million. the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. historically, the venezuelan government has devalued the country currency. during the first quarter of 2013, the venezuelan government again officially devalued the venezuelan bolivar against the u.s. dollar. as a result, the company incurred approximately $12 million in devaluation charges in the first quarter of 2013. the reporting currency of all of the company venezuelan entities is the u.s. dollar. the company net investment in venezuela was $45 million at december 31, 2014. interest rate risk at december 31, 2014, long term borrowings consisted of $151 million in 6.125% senior notes, $500 million in 1.35% senior notes, $1,396 million in 2.60% senior notes and $1,096 million in 3.95% senior notes, no commercial paper borrowings and no borrowings against our revolving credit facility. occasionally a portion of borrowings under our credit facility could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either libor, nibor or euribor, or at the u.s. prime rate. under our credit facility, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or euribor for 30 days to six months. our objective is to maintain a portion of our debt in variable rate borrowings for the flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without penalties and lower overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings. 53quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk incorporated by reference to item 7 above, market risk disclosure.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk incorporated by reference to item 7 above, market risk disclosure.risk factors risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the oil and gas industry, which is volatile . the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of production by non-opec countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas; level of production from known reserves; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity; national government political requirements; development of alternate energy sources; and environmental regulations. if there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the company will decline. volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products. oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1990. in general, oil prices approximated $18-22 per barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have generally ranged between $25-65 per barrel since 2000. spot gas prices generally ranged between $1.80-2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999, then experienced severe spikes into the $10 range in 2001 and 2003. absent occasional spikes and dips due to imbalances in supply and demand, prices have generally ranged between $6.00-10.00 per mmbtu during the last two years. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could reduce demand for our products. competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of their current major product lines. these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and earnings: price changes; new product and technology introductions; and improvements in availability and delivery. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. competition in our industry could lead to lower revenues and earnings. 15 table of contents we have aggressively expanded its businesses, and intends to maintain an aggressive growth strategy. we have aggressively expanded and grown its businesses during the past several years, through acquisitions and investment in internal growth. we anticipate that we will continue to pursue an aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the combined company or operate any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the combined company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue. we have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. we cannot assure you that we will realize expected earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors expectations. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future: fluctuations in the oil and gas industry; competition; the ability to service the debt obligations of the combined company; the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices; the ability to manage and control operating costs of the combined company; fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the united states and abroad; and the ability to protect our intellectual property rights. there are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability and currency restrictions. approximately 56% of our revenues in 2005 were derived from operations outside the united states. our foreign operations include significant operations in europe, the middle east, africa, southeast asia, south america and other international markets. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies. an impairment of goodwill could reduce the combined company earnings. we recorded approximately $2.1 billion of goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2005. goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity and increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating 16 table of contents permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or environmental damage and suspension of operations. our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. 17 table of contents glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raises and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds (pdcs). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a real, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. 18 table of contents directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or ope-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1) in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 metres, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2) in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 metres) of pipe. 3) in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four- or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four- or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 metres) long, and have diameters as small as 2 1 /2 inches (6 centimetres) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimetres). kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and 19 table of contents since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. compare break out. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the 20 table of contents kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shaker see shale shaker shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 metres) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a thribble. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill 21 table of contents stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. trouble cost costs incurred as a result or unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these cost are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oilwell to try to increase production oilwell to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have operations in foreign countries, including canada, norway and the united kingdom, as well as operations in latin america, china and other european countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that do impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, the company reported foreign currency gains (losses) of $2.9 million, ($9.3) million, and ($7.2) million respectively. the gains (losses) were primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. we do not believe that a hypothetical 10% movement in these foreign currencies would have a material impact on our earnings due to the element of natural hedges that would impact both revenue and expenses. some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. at december 31, 2005, we had also entered into foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $380.9 million to hedge exposure to currency fluctuations in various foreign currencies, including the british pound sterling, the euro, norwegian kroner and the singapore dollar. these exposures arise when local currency operating expenses are not in balance with local currency revenue collections. these foreign currency forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedging instruments and are fully effective. based on quoted market prices as of december 31, 2005 and 2004 for contracts with similar terms and maturity dates, we have recorded a gain (loss) of ($7.3) million and $1.2 million respectively to adjust these foreign currency forward contracts to their fair market value. this gain (loss) is included in other comprehensive income in the consolidated balance sheet. it is expected that $6.6 million of the loss will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. the company currently has cash flow hedges in place through the first quarter of 2008. we do not believe that a hypothetical 10% movement in these foreign currencies would have a material impact on our earnings related to these forward contracts. the company also had several foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $223.1 million designated and qualifying as fair value hedges to hedge exposure to the euro, norwegian kroner, and singapore dollar. based on quoted market prices as of december 31, 2005 and 2004 for contracts with similar terms and maturity dates, we recorded a loss of $5.1 million and $1.9 million respectively to adjust these foreign currency forward contracts to their fair market value. this loss offsets designated gains on firm commitments. we do not believe that a hypothetical 10% movement in these foreign currencies would have a material impact on our earnings related to these forward contracts. the company has other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies totaling $19.7 million as of december 31, 2005 excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all 41 table of contents applicable foreign currency exchange rates on these financial market risk sensitive instruments would affect net income by $1.3 million. the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the unlikely event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. interest rate risk at december 31, 2005 our long term borrowings consisted of $100 million in 7.5% senior notes, $150 million in 6.5% senior notes, $200 million in 7.25% senior notes, $200 million in 5.65% senior notes and $150 million in 5.5% senior notes. we had $41.3 million of borrowings under our other credit facilities at december 31, 2005. we occasionally have borrowings under our other credit facilities, and a portion of these borrowings could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either libor, nibor or euribor, or at the prime interest rate. under our credit facilities, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or euribor for 30 days to 6 months. our objective is to maintain a portion of our debt in variable rate borrowings for the flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without penalties and lower overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings. as of december 31, 2005, we had three interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $100 million associated with our 2008 senior notes. under this agreement, we receive interest at a fixed rate of 7.5% and pay interest at a floating rate of six-month libor plus a weighted average spread of approximately 4.675%. the swap agreements will settle semi-annually and will terminate in february 2008. the swap agreements originally entered into by varco were recorded at their fair market value at the date of the merger and no longer qualify as effective hedges under fas 133. the swaps will be marked-to-market for periods subsequent to the merger and any change in their value will be reported as an adjustment to interest expense. the change in the fair market value of the interest swap agreements resulted in a $0.3 million increase in interest expense for the period ended december 31, 2005.risk factors risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile . the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of production by non-opec countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas; level of production from known reserves; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity; national government political requirements; development of alternate energy sources; and environmental regulations. if there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the company will decline. volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products. oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1990. in general, oil prices approximated $18-22 per barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have generally ranged between $25-75 per barrel since 2000. spot gas prices generally ranged between $1.80-2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999, then experienced severe spikes into the $10 range in 2001 and 2003. absent occasional spikes and dips due to imbalances in supply and demand, prices have generally ranged between $5.00-10.00 per mmbtu during the last two years. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could reduce demand for our products. competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and earnings: price changes; new product and technology introductions; and improvements in availability and delivery. 15 table of contents in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. competition in our industry could lead to lower revenues and earnings. we have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy. we have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through acquisitions and investment in internal growth. we anticipate that we will continue to pursue an aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the company or operate any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue. we have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. we cannot assure you that we will realize expected earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors expectations. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future: fluctuations in the oil and gas industry; competition; the ability to service the debt obligations of the company; the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices; the ability to manage and control operating costs of the company; fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the united states and abroad; and the ability to protect our intellectual property rights. there are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability and currency restrictions. approximately 55% of our revenues in 2006 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in canada, europe, the middle east, africa, southeast asia, south america and other international markets. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies. under broad powers granted to the president of venezuela by the national assembly on january 31, 2007, the venezuelan government began asserting closer government control over its oil and gas reserves. the company generated revenue of $57.9 million from its venezuelan operations in 2006, and as of december 31, 2006 had a net equity investment in venezuela of $45.3 million. these political events could adversely affect our operations in venezuela (where we have operated for nearly 40 years) and financial results in the future. the results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other that the u.s. dollar, including the canadian dollar, the euro, the british pound and the norwegian kroner. approximately 55% of our 2006 revenue was derived from sales outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. thus, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income. because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. we also use derivative financial instruments to further reduce our net exposure 16 table of contents to currency exchange fluctuations. we had forward contracts with a notional amount of $1,477.2 million (with a fair value of $26.3 million) as of december 31, 2006 to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are also subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results. an impairment of goodwill could reduce our earnings. we recorded approximately $2.2 billion of goodwill on the consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2006. goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity and increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or environmental damage and suspension of operations. our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment. as of december 31, 2006, we had a backlog of approximately $6 billion of drilling equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by our rig technology group. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market and subject us to contractual penalties: our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this drilling equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; and our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control. such developments could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. 17 table of contents glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raises and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds (pdcs). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a real, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. 18 table of contents directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1) in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2) in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3) in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four- or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four- or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2 1 /2 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in 19 table of contents the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. compare break out. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. 20 table of contents rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shaker see shale shaker shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. string sucker rod tensioner the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. 21 table of contents top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. trouble cost costs incurred as a result or unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these cost are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oilwell to try to increase production oilwell to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange rates. provision for income taxes the effective tax rate for the fiscal year-ended december 31, 2006 was 33.9% compared to 32.3% for 2005. the higher 2006 tax rate was due primarily to increased state income tax expenses and charges for increases in valuation allowances related to separate company operating losses that may not be deductible in the future. the tax rates also reflect a lower percentage of 35 table of contents earnings in foreign jurisdictions with lower tax rates and reduced benefits in the us associated with export sales in 2006 compared to 2005. the us laws granting this tax benefit were modified as part of the american jobs creation act of 2004 and this benefit will no longer be available after 2006. a new tax benefit associated with us manufacturing operations passed into law under the same act will be phased in over a five year period beginning in 2005. whereas the timing of the phase out of the export tax benefit and the phase in of the manufacturing tax benefit may differ, we expect the tax reduction associated with the new manufacturing deduction, when fully implemented, to be similar in amount to the export benefit. we anticipate our tax rate for 2007 to be in the range of approximately 33% to 34% for continuing operations. years ended december 31, 2005 and december 31, 2004 the following table summarizes the company revenue and operating profit by operating segment in 2005 and 2004 (in millions): years ended december 31, variance 2005 2004 $ % revenue: rig technology $ 2,216.8 $ 1,085.5 $ 1,131.3 104.2 % petroleum services supplies 1,645.8 505.5 1,140.3 225.6 % distribution services 1,074.5 905.1 169.4 18.7 % eliminations (292.6 ) (178.0 ) (114.6 ) 64.4 % total revenue $ 4,644.5 $ 2,318.1 $ 2,326.4 100.4 % operating profit: rig technology $ 247.7 $ 102.4 $ 145.3 141.9 % petroleum services supplies 300.1 62.7 237.4 378.6 % distribution services 46.6 29.6 17.0 57.4 % unallocated expenses and eliminations (70.3 ) (18.7 ) (51.6 ) 275.9 % integration costs and stock-based compensation (47.3 ) (47.3 ) total operating profit $ 476.8 $ 176.0 $ 300.8 170.9 % operating profit %: rig technology 11.2 % 9.4 % petroleum services supplies 18.2 % 12.4 % distribution services 4.3 % 3.3 % total operating profit % 10.3 % 7.6 % operations revenues in 2005 were $2,326.4 million (100.4%) higher than the previous year, while operating profit was up 170.9%. the majority of the increase is attributable to the varco acquisition which resulted in approximately $767.3 million of additional revenue in the rig technology group and $984.8 million for the additional product lines acquired from varco in the petroleum services and supplies group. the remainder of the increase can be attributed to the high oil and gas activity levels in 2005. yearly average oil and gas prices in 2005 were $56.65 and $8.83, respectively, an increase of 37% and 50%, respectively, over 2004. these higher oil and gas prices have led to rising levels of exploration and development drilling in many oil and gas producing basins around the globe, causing a growth in the market for capital equipment, as evidenced by backlog growth as well as increases in spare parts and service revenue. the world-wide rig count, a good indicator of oilfield activity and spending, increased 15% in 2005 to a yearly average of 2,747 rigs, up for the third consecutive year. this has increased demand for petroleum services supplies. sales of composite fiberglass pipe, solids control products and services, drilling motors and jars, mud pump expendables, coiled tubing pipe, rig instrumentation equipment and services, and tubular coating and inspection have all benefited from the higher levels of exploration and production investment in drilling and stimulating wells. operating profit margins have also improved from 7.6% to 10.3% due to achieving merger synergies, higher profitability from downhole tool sales and rentals, and sales of pumping products, and increased operating efficiencies in the distribution services group achieved by absorbing the revenue increase across an already established distribution infrastructure. 36 table of contents one of our metrics used to plan the business is the capital equipment backlog. new orders are added to backlog only when we receive a firm customer purchase order for major drilling rig components or a signed contract related to a construction project. the capital equipment backlog was $2.3 billion at december 31, 2005, an increase of $1.5 billion (191.6%) over backlog of $783 million (on an adjusted basis for the varco acquisition) at december 31, 2004. substantially all of the current backlog will be delivered by the end of 2007. unallocated expenses and eliminations unallocated expenses and eliminations were $70.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2005 compared to $18.7 million for 2004. the increase in operations costs was primarily due to costs associated with varco operations since the acquisition date and greater inter-segment profit eliminations. stock-based compensation stock-based compensation expense of $15.6 million for 2005 was related to the amortization of unvested options assumed as a result of the merger. on february 21, 2006, the company issued 2,340,000 stock options at an exercise price of $66.58. integration costs integration costs were $31.7 million for 2005 and consisted primarily of severance costs related to former executive officers and employees of the company. interest and financial costs interest and financial costs were $52.9 million for 2005 compared to $38.4 million for 2004. the increase was primarily due to interest costs associated with debt assumed in the varco transaction. see summary of outstanding debt at december 31, 2005 under liquidity and capital resources. provision for income taxes the effective tax rate for the fiscal year-ended december 31, 2005 was 32.3% compared to 15.6% for 2004. the lower 2004 tax rate was due primarily to a non-recurring tax credit of $17 million resulting from the release of a valuation allowance related to the american jobs creation act of 2004. the tax rates reflect a lower percentage of earnings in foreign jurisdictions with lower tax rates and reduced benefits in the us associated with export sales in 2005 compared to 2004. the us laws granting this tax benefit were modified as part of the american jobs creation act of 2004 and this benefit will be phased out over the next year. a new tax benefit associated with us manufacturing operations passed into law under the same act will be phased in over the five years beginning in 2005. whereas the timing of the phase out of the export tax benefit and the phase in of the manufacturing tax benefit may differ, we expect the tax reduction associated with the new manufacturing deduction, when fully implemented, to be similar in amount to the export benefit. liquidity and capital resources at december 31, 2006, the company had cash and cash equivalents of $957.4 million, and total debt of $840.3 million. at december 31, 2005, cash and cash equivalents were $209.4 million and total debt was $841.3 million. the increase in cash holdings was primarily a result of increased operating activities and securing project orders that require large down payments and early payment terms. the company outstanding debt at december 31, 2006 consisted of $200.0 million of 5.65% senior notes due 2012, $200.0 million of 7.25% senior notes due 2011, $150.0 million of 6.5% senior notes due 2011, $150.0 million of 5.5% senior notes due 2012, $100.0 million of 7.5% senior notes due 2008, and other debt of $40.3 million. included in other debt is the fair market value adjustment of the varco debt assumed in the acquisition, which resulted in additional debt recognition of $29.2 million. the difference is being amortized to interest expense over the remaining life of the debt. cash provided by operating activities in 2006 was $1,216.7 million compared to cash provided by operating activities of $77.5 million in 2005. cash was used by operations primarily through increases in inventories of $619.9 million, receivables of $442.1 million, prepaid and other current assets of $101.7 million and accounts payable of $93.5 million. these negative cash flows were offset by net income of $684.0 million and increases in other assets and liabilities of $1,085.0 million, billings in excess of costs of $466.4 million and non-cash charges of $160.6 million. receivables increased due to greater revenue, pricing and activity in the fourth quarter of 2006 compared to the fourth quarter of 2005, while inventory and accrued liabilities increased due to continued higher costs, activity, growing backlog orders, and customer prepayments. billings in excess of costs increased due to early payment terms in relation to construction projects. for the fiscal year-ended 2006, cash used by investing activities was $530.1 million compared to $38.0 million provided for 2005. we used $253.8 million to purchase nql energy services in december 2006. another $75.9 million was used in nine other acquisitions, including rolligon, ltd and soil recovery a/s. capital spending of $200.4 million was primarily related to rental 37 table of contents assets associated with the company petroleum services supplies operations and capital expansion related to increased capacity for manufacturing operations. for the fiscal year-ended 2006, cash provided by financing activities was $41.1 million compared to cash used of $40.4 million in 2005. cash was provided by financing activities through proceeds from stock options exercised of $32.7 million and excess tax benefit from exercise of stock options of $13.5 million, offset by payments against lines of credit and other debt of $35.1 million. on june 21, 2005, we amended and restated our existing $150 million revolving credit facility with a syndicate of lenders to provide the company a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility. the facility will expire in july 2010, and replaces the company $175 million north american revolving credit facility and our norwegian facility. subject to certain conditions, the company has the right to increase the facility to $750 million and to extend the term of the facility for an additional year. at december 31, 2006, there were no borrowings against this facility, and there were $254 million in outstanding letters of credit. interest under this multicurrency facility is based upon libor, nibor or euribor plus 0.30% subject to a ratings-based grid, or the prime rate. we believe cash generated from operations and amounts available under the credit facilities and from other sources of debt will be sufficient to fund operations, working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements and financing obligations. we also believe increases in capital expenditures caused by any need to increase manufacturing capacity can be funded from operations or through debt financing. a summary of the company outstanding contractual obligations at december 31, 2006 is as follows (in millions): payment due by period less than 1 after 5 total year 1-3 years 4-5 years years total debt $ 840.3 $ 5.6 $ 126.0 $ 357.8 $ 350.9 operating leases 231.8 57.1 77.1 39.3 58.3 total contractual obligations $ 1,072.1 $ 62.7 $ 203.1 $ 397.1 $ 409.2 standby letters of credit $ 833.6 $ 405.9 $ 259.9 $ 167.6 $ 0.2 we intend to pursue additional acquisition candidates, but the timing, size or success of any acquisition effort and the related potential capital commitments cannot be predicted. the company expects to increase its capital spending approximately 25% in 2007 to a range of $250 million. we expect to fund future cash acquisitions and capital spending primarily with cash flow from operations and borrowings, including the unborrowed portion of the credit facility or new debt issuances, but may also issue additional equity either directly or in connection with acquisitions. there can be no assurance that additional financing for acquisitions will be available at terms acceptable to us. inflation has had an impact on certain of our operations in recent years. we believe that the higher costs for energy, steel and other commodities experienced in 2006 have largely been mitigated by increased prices and component surcharges for the products we sell. however, higher steel, labor, energy or other commodity prices may adversely impact future periods. critical accounting estimates in preparing the financial statements, we make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported. we periodically evaluate our estimates and judgments that are most critical in nature which are related to revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts; allowance for doubtful accounts; inventory reserves; impairments of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill); goodwill impairment and income taxes. our estimates are based on historical experience and on our future expectations that we believe are reasonable. the combination of these factors forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results are likely to differ from our current estimates and those differences may be material. revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts the company uses the percentage-of-completion method to account for certain long-term construction contracts in the rig technology group. these long-term construction contracts include the following characteristics: the contracts include custom designs for customer specific applications; the structural design is unique and requires significant engineering efforts; and 38 table of contents construction projects often have progress payments. this method requires the company to make estimates regarding the total costs of the project, progress against the project schedule and the estimated completion date, all of which impact the amount of revenue and gross margin the company recognizes in each reporting period. the company prepares detailed cost to complete estimates at the beginning of each project. significant projects and their related costs and profit margins are updated and reviewed at least quarterly by senior management. factors that may affect future project costs and margins include shipyard access, weather, production efficiencies, availability and costs of labor, materials and subcomponents and other factors as mentioned in risk factors. these factors can impact the accuracy of the company estimates and materially impact the company future reported earnings. historically, the company estimates have been reasonably dependable regarding the recognition of revenues and gross profits on percentage of completion contracts, excluding $21.7 million of losses recorded in 2005 resulting from changes in cost estimates relating to two rigs delivered to kazakhstan as discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. excluding these losses, and based upon an analysis of percentage of completion contracts for all open contracts outstanding at december 31, 2005 and 2004, adjustments (representing the differences between the estimated and actual results) to all outstanding contracts resulted in changes to gross profit margins of 1.1% ($12.1 million on $1.1 billion of outstanding contracts) and 0.9% ($7.3 million on $697.3 million of outstanding contracts, respectively). while the company believes that its estimates on outstanding contracts at december 31, 2006 and in future periods will continue to be reasonably dependable under percentage of completion accounting, the factors identified in the preceding paragraph could result in significant adjustments in future periods. the company has recorded revenue on outstanding contracts of $1.6 billion at december 31, 2006. allowance for doubtful accounts the determination of the collectibility of amounts due from customer accounts requires the company to make judgments regarding future events and trends. allowances for doubtful accounts are determined based on a continuous process of assessing the company portfolio on an individual customer and overall basis. this process consists of a thorough review of historical collection experience, current aging status of the customer accounts, and financial condition of the company customers. based on a review of these factors, the company will establish or adjust allowances for specific customers and the accounts receivable portfolio as a whole. a substantial portion of the company revenues come from international oil companies, international shipyards, international oilfield service companies, and government-owned or government-controlled oil companies. therefore, the company has significant receivables in many foreign jurisdictions. if worldwide oil and gas drilling activity or changes in economic conditions in foreign jurisdictions deteriorate, the creditworthiness of the company customers could also deteriorate and they may be unable to pay these receivables, and additional allowances could be required. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, allowance for bad debts totaled $30.4 million and $17.4 million, or 1.9% and 1.5% of accounts receivable before the allowance, respectively. historically, the company charge-offs and provisions for the allowance for doubtful accounts have been immaterial to the company consolidated financial statements. however, because of the risk factors mentioned above, changes in our estimates could become material in future periods. inventory reserves inventory is carried at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. the company determines reserves for inventory based on historical usage of inventory on-hand, assumptions about future demand and market conditions, and estimates about potential alternative uses, which are usually limited. the company inventory consists of specialized spare parts, work in process, and raw materials to support ongoing manufacturing operations and the company large installed base of specialized equipment used throughout the oilfield. customers rely on the company to stock these specialized items to ensure that their equipment can be repaired and serviced in a timely manner. the company estimated carrying value of inventory therefore depends upon demand driven by oil and gas drilling and well remediation activity, which depends in turn upon oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the company customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, inventory reserves totaled 4.7% and 4.5% of gross inventory, respectively. recent high demand and a strong outlook for oilfield equipment sales provide the basis for the company december 31, 2006 and 2005 estimates regarding the future usage and realizable value of inventory. while inventory reserves and accruals have not had a material impact on the company financial results for the periods covered in this report, changes in worldwide oil and gas activity, or the development of new technologies which make older drilling 39 table of contents technologies obsolete, could require the company to record additional allowances to reduce the value of its inventory. such changes in our estimates could be material under weaker market conditions or outlook. impairment of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill) long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment and identified intangible assets, comprise a significant amount of the company total assets. the company makes judgments and estimates in conjunction with the carrying value of these assets, including amounts to be capitalized, depreciation and amortization methods and estimated useful lives. additionally, the carrying values of these assets are reviewed for impairment periodically or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. an impairment loss is recorded in the period in which it is determined that the carrying amount is not recoverable. this requires the company to make long-term forecasts of its future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review. these forecasts require assumptions about demand for the company products and services, future market conditions and technological developments. the forecasts are dependent upon assumptions regarding oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the company customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. significant and unanticipated changes to these assumptions or the intended use of these assets could require a provision for impairment in a future period. there have been no impairment charges of long-lived assets for the years ended december 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004. goodwill impairment the company recorded approximately $2.2 billion of goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2006. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment of goodwill could include (but are not limited to) a significant reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant reduction in worldwide well remediation activity; a significant reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. the company performs a review of goodwill for impairment annually or earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist. the annual impairment tests are performed during the fourth quarter of each year. if it is determined that goodwill is impaired, that impairment is measured based on the amount by which the book value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. the implied fair value of goodwill and identified intangibles is determined by deducting the fair value of a reporting unit identifiable assets and liabilities from the fair value of that reporting unit as a whole. additional impairment assessments may be performed on an interim basis if the company encounters events or changes in circumstances that would indicate that, more likely than not, the carrying amount of goodwill and identified intangibles has been impaired. fair value of the reporting units is determined based on internal management estimates, using a combination of three methods: discounted cash flow, comparable companies, and representative transactions. changes in the assumptions used in the fair value calculation could result in an estimated reporting unit fair value that is below the carrying value, which may give rise to an impairment of goodwill. in addition to the annual review, the company also tests for impairment should an event occur or circumstances change that may indicate a reduction in the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. the company had no impairment of goodwill for the years ended december 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004. income taxes the company is a us registered company and is subject to income taxes in the us. the company operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. income taxes have been provided based upon the tax laws and rates of the countries in which the company operates and income is earned. the company annual tax provision is based on expected taxable income, statutory rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. the determination and evaluation of the annual tax provision and tax positions involves the interpretation of the tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which the company operates. it requires significant judgment and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events such as the amount, timing and character of income, deductions and tax credits. changes in tax laws, regulations, and treaties, foreign currency exchange restrictions or the company level of operations or profitability in each jurisdiction could impact the tax liability in any given year. the company also operates in many jurisdictions where the tax laws relating to the pricing of transactions between related parties are 40 table of contents open to interpretation, which could potentially result in aggressive tax authorities asserting additional tax liabilities with no offsetting tax recovery in other countries. the company maintains liabilities for estimated tax exposures in jurisdictions of operation. the annual tax provision includes the impact of income tax provisions and benefits for changes to liabilities that the company considers appropriate, as well as related interest. tax exposure items primarily include potential challenges to intercompany pricing and certain tax credits which may not ultimately be sustained. these exposures are resolved primarily through the settlement of audits within these tax jurisdictions or by judicial means. the company is subject to audits by federal, state and foreign jurisdictions which may result in proposed assessments. the company believes that an appropriate liability has been established for estimated exposures under the guidance in statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 5, accounting for contingencies . however, actual results may differ materially from these estimates. the company reviews these liabilities quarterly and to the extent audits or other events result in an adjustment to the liability accrued for a prior year, the effect will be recognized in the period of the event. the company currently has recorded valuation allowances that the company intends to maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. other than valuation allowances associated with tax attributes acquired through acquisitions, income tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in the company valuation allowances. the realization of remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that the company record an additional valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. an increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on future earnings. if a change in a valuation allowance occurs, which was established in connection with an acquisition, such adjustment may impact goodwill rather than the income tax provision. as the result of current period earnings and changes in estimates of future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, the company recognized a decrease of $18.6 million in goodwill during the fourth quarter of 2005 related to the reversal of a valuation allowance associated with net operating loss carryovers acquired in the february 28, 2000 acquisition of hitec, as. the company has not provided for deferred taxes on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries that are permanently reinvested. should the company make a distribution from the unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries, the company may be required to record additional taxes. unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries were $1,116.3 million and $441.4 million at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the company makes an annual determination whether to permanently reinvest these earnings. if, as a result of these reassessments, the company distributes these earnings in the future, additional tax liability would result, offset by any available foreign tax credits. the company does not believe it is possible to reasonably estimate the potential impact of changes to the assumptions and estimates identified because the resulting change to our tax liability, if any, is dependent on numerous factors which cannot be reasonably estimated. these include, among others, the amount and nature of additional taxes potentially asserted by local tax authorities; the willingness of local tax authorities to negotiate a fair settlement through an administrative process; the impartiality of the local courts; and the potential for changes in the tax paid to one country to either produce, or fail to produce, an offsetting tax change in other countries. recently issued accounting standards in june 2006, the fasb issued fasb interpretation no. 48 ( fin 48 ), accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109. this interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise financial statements in accordance with fasb statement no. 109, accounting for income taxes. the interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. the provisions of fin 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2006, and we will be required to adopt this interpretation in the first quarter of 2007. we are currently evaluating the effect fin 48 will have on our consolidated financial position, cash flows, and results from operations. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 157, fair value measurements ( sfas 157 ). sfas 157 establishes a framework for fair value measurements in the financial statements by providing a single definition of fair value, provides guidance on the methods used to estimate fair value and increases disclosures about estimates of fair value. sfas 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2007. we are currently evaluating the effect sfas 157 will have on our consolidated financial position, cash flows, and results from operations. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 158, employers accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106, and 132(r) ( sfas 158 ). sfas 158 requires 41 table of contents employers to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income of a business entity. the company adopted the provisions of sfas 158 effective december 31, 2006 with no material impact on the consolidated financial statements. see note 10 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. forward looking statements some of the information in this document contains, or has incorporated by reference, forward-looking statements. statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements typically are identified by use of terms such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate, and similar words, although some forward-looking statements are expressed differently. you should be aware that our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including but not limited to changes in oil and gas prices, customer demand for our products and worldwide economic activity. you should also consider carefully the statements under risk factors which address additional factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. given these uncertainties, current or prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to update any such factors or forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. 42 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have extensive operations in foreign countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that do impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, the company reported foreign currency gains (losses) of ($21.0) million, $2.9 million, and ($9.3) million respectively. the gains (losses) were primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the foreign exchange loss is primarily the result in the strengthening of the following major currencies against the us dollar: british pound 13.8%, euro 11.5% and the norwegian kroner 8.9%. further strengthening of these currencies against the us dollar may continue to create similar losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the countries using the above currencies as their functional currency. some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. similarly some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated u.s. dollar costs, which also gives rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. at december 31, 2006, we had entered into foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $130.1 million to hedge cash flow exposure to currency fluctuations in various foreign currencies. these exposures arise when local currency operating expenses are not in balance with local currency revenue collections. ineffectiveness was not material on these foreign currency forward contracts. based on quoted market prices as of december 31, 2006 and 2005 for contracts with similar terms and maturity dates, we have recorded a gain (loss) of $1.0 million and ($7.3) million, respectively, to adjust these foreign currency forward contracts to their fair market value. this gain (loss) is included in other comprehensive income in the consolidated balance sheet. it is expected that $1.0 million of the gain will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. the company currently has cash flow hedges in place through the first quarter of 2008. the company had foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $1,268.1 million designated and qualifying as fair value hedges to hedge exposure to currency fluctuations in various foreign currencies. based on quoted market prices as of december 31, 2006 and 2005 for contracts with similar terms and maturity dates, we recorded a gain (loss) of $25.0 million and ($5.1) million, respectively, to adjust these foreign currency forward contracts to their fair market value. this gain (loss) is offset by designated gains (losses) on the firm commitments. ineffectiveness was not material on these foreign currency forward contracts. the company had foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $79.0 million to offset exposures to the currency fluctuation of nonfunctional currency balance sheet accounts, primarily consisting of account receivables and account payables, and are not designated as hedges. therefore, changes in the fair value of these contracts are recorded each period in current earnings. 43 table of contents the maturity of the above forward contracts by currency is: hedge classification currency 2007 2008 2009 2010 total cash flow usd $ 129.0 $ 1.1 $ $ $ 130.1 fair value eur $ 102.9 $ 31.6 $ 3.7 $ $ 138.2 gbp 13.7 0.4 14.1 krw 0.7 0.6 1.3 sgd 3.1 1.0 4.1 usd 818.1 220.0 70.9 1.4 1,110.4 $ 938.5 $ 253.6 $ 74.6 $ 1.4 $ 1,268.1 balance sheet eur $ 1.2 $ $ $ $ 1.2 sdg 1.0 1.0 usd 76.8 76.8 $ 79.0 $ $ $ $ 79.0 total $ 1,146.5 $ 254.7 $ 74.6 $ 1.4 $ 1,477.2 the company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies totaling $103.4 million as of december 31, 2006 excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on these financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect net income by $6.7 million. the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the unlikely event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. interest rate risk at december 31, 2006 our long term borrowings consisted of $100 million in 7.5% senior notes, $150 million in 6.5% senior notes, $200 million in 7.25% senior notes, $200 million in 5.65% senior notes and $150 million in 5.5% senior notes. we had $40.3 million of other borrowings at december 31, 2006. we occasionally have borrowings under our other credit facilities, and a portion of these borrowings could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either libor, nibor or euribor, or at the prime interest rate. under our credit facilities, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or euribor for 30 days to 6 months. our objective is to maintain a portion of our debt in variable rate borrowings for the flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without penalties and lower overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings. as of december 31, 2006, we had three interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $100 million associated with our 2008 senior notes. under this agreement, we receive interest at a fixed rate of 7.5% and pay interest at a floating rate of six-month libor plus a weighted average spread of approximately 4.675%. the swap agreements will settle semi-annually and will terminate in february 2008. the swap agreements originally entered into by varco were recorded at their fair market value at the date of the merger and no longer qualify as effective hedges under fas 133. the swaps will be marked-to-market for periods subsequent to the merger and any change in their value will be reported as an adjustment to interest expense. the change in the fair market value of the interest swap agreements resulted in a $1.0 million increase in interest expense for the period ended december 31, 2006.risk factors glossary of oilfield terms risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. risks related to the grant prideco merger and the related transactions on december 16, 2007, we agreed to acquire 100% of the outstanding shares of grant prideco, inc. for a combination of $23.20 cash per share and 0.4498 shares of national oilwell varco, inc. common stock. consummation of the merger requires approval by the stockholders of grant prideco and also approval from various regulatory agencies. we anticipate completion of the merger during the second quarter of 2008; however, we cannot assure you that the acquisition will be completed at this time or at all. we may not be able to successfully integrate the operations of the two companies and realize the anticipated benefits of the grant prideco merger. achieving the benefits we expect from the merger will depend in large part on integrating our technology, operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner to minimize the impact on customers, employees and management. integration of the two previously independent companies will be a complex, time consuming and costly process. failure to timely and successfully integrate these companies may have a material adverse effect on the combined company business, financial condition and results of operations. the difficulties of combining the companies will present challenges to the combined company management, including: operating a significantly larger combined company with operations in more geographic areas and with more business lines; integrating personnel with diverse backgrounds and organizational cultures; coordinating sales and marketing functions; retaining key employees, customers or suppliers; preserving the research and development, collaboration, distribution, marketing, promotion and other important relationships of national oilwell varco and grant prideco; integrating the internal controls and procedures that national oilwell varco will be required to maintain under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002; and consolidating other corporate and administrative functions. the combined company will also be exposed to other risks that are commonly associated with transactions similar to the merger, such as unanticipated liabilities and costs, some of which may be material, and diversion of management attention. as a result, we cannot assure you that we will realize any of the anticipated benefits of the merger, including anticipated cost savings, and failure to do so could adversely affect the business of the combined company after the merger. the costs of the grant prideco merger could adversely affect combined financial results. we expect the total merger-related costs, including executive severance but exclusive of other employee benefit costs, to be approximately $110 million, consisting primarily of executive severance, financial advisory, legal and accounting fees, financial printing costs and other related charges. the amount of these expenses is a preliminary estimate and is subject to change. in addition, the combined company will incur certain integration costs, including, but not limited to, costs associated with consolidating administrative and operational functions and the closure of certain facilities. if the benefits of the merger do not exceed the costs associated with the merger, including any dilution to the stockholders of both companies resulting from the issuance of shares in connection with the merger, the combined company financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected. 15 table of contents national oilwell varco shareholders will be diluted by the grant prideco merger the merger will dilute the ownership positions of the present stockholders of national oilwell varco. based on the number of grant prideco shares outstanding as of december 17, 2007, national oilwell varco will issue to grant prideco shareholders approximately 56.3 million shares of national oilwell varco common stock in the merger. as a result, national oilwell varco stockholders and grant prideco stockholders will own approximately 86% and 14%, respectively, of the combined company common stock outstanding after the completion of the merger, based on the common stock of national oilwell varco and grant prideco outstanding as of december 17, 2007. failure to complete the grant prideco merger or delays in completing the grant prideco merger could negatively impact national oilwell varco and grant prideco stock prices and future business and operations. if the merger is not completed for any reason, national oilwell varco and grant prideco may be subject to a number of material risks, including the following: the individual companies will not realize the benefits expected from becoming part of a combined company, including potentially enhanced financial and competitive position; under certain circumstances, grant prideco may be required to pay national oilwell varco a termination fee of $185.0 million, and under certain other circumstances, either of the companies may be required to reimburse the other party for up to $5.0 million in merger-related expenses; the price of common stock of national oilwell varco or grant prideco may decline to the extent that the current market price of the common stock reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed; and some costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and financial advisor fees, must be paid even if the merger is not completed. whether or not the grant prideco merger is completed, the pendency of the transaction could cause disruptions in the businesses of national oilwell varco, which could have an adverse effect on their businesses and financial results. in response to the announcement of the merger, national oilwell varco customers may delay or defer purchasing decisions. any delay or deferral of purchasing decisions by customers could negatively affect the business and results of operations of national oilwell varco, regardless of whether the merger is ultimately completed. similarly, current and prospective employees of national oilwell varco may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the companies until after the merger is completed or if the merger is not completed. this may adversely affect the ability of national oilwell varco to attract and retain key management, marketing and technical personnel. in addition, the diversion of the attention of the companies respective management teams away from the day-to-day operations during the pendency of the transaction could have an adverse effect on the financial condition and operating results of either company. national oilwell varco and grant prideco could be required to divest, hold separate or license assets to complete the grant prideco merger. we cannot complete the merger until the waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976 ( hsr ) or any other applicable waiting period has expired or is otherwise terminated. on february 6, 2008 national oilwell varco and grant prideco refiled antitrust documents relating to the merger with the ftc and the doj. national oilwell varco and grant prideco have also made, or are in the process of making, the required filings relating to the merger with various government authorities in a number of foreign jurisdictions in which one or both companies have sufficient market presence to require filings. we continue to work with these various governmental agencies to obtain regulatory clearance to complete the merger. as a prerequisite to obtaining the expiration or termination of this waiting period, or to avoid an injunction by the department of justice or another governmental entity, whether foreign or domestic, national oilwell varco, grant prideco or both companies may be required to divest, hold separate or license certain assets. although each of national oilwell varco and grant prideco have agreed to use their reasonable best efforts to obtain the expiration or termination of this waiting period and to obtain any other governmental clearance or approvals under federal, state or foreign antitrust laws, neither national oilwell varco nor grant prideco is required to divest, hold separate or license any of their respective businesses, product lines or assets, take or agree to take any other action or agree to any limitation, that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or prospects of national oilwell varco or grant prideco or that is not conditioned upon completion of the merger. 16 table of contents divestitures or licensing of assets can be time consuming and may delay or prevent completion of the proposed merger. because there may be a limited number of potential buyers or licensees for the assets subject to divestiture or license and because potential buyers will likely be aware of the circumstances of the sale or license, these assets could be sold or licensed at prices or rates lower than their fair market values or the prices national oilwell varco or grant prideco paid for these assets. asset divestitures or licenses of national oilwell varco or grant prideco assets could also significantly reduce the value of the combined company, eliminate potential cost savings opportunities or lessen the anticipated benefits of the merger. if national oilwell varco or grant prideco fails to obtain all required consents and waivers, third parties may terminate or alter existing contracts. certain agreements with suppliers, customers, licensors or other business partners may require national oilwell varco or grant prideco to obtain the approval or waiver of these other parties in connection with the merger. national oilwell varco and grant prideco have agreed to use reasonable efforts to secure the necessary approvals and waivers. however, we cannot assure you that national oilwell varco and/or grant prideco will be able to obtain all of the necessary approvals and waivers, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the business of the combined company after the merger. certain litigation against grant prideco, its directors and national oilwell varco has been instituted. this litigation could delay or prevent the grant prideco merger. similar litigation could also be instituted in the future. as of february 28, 2008, national oilwell varco and grant prideco are aware of five lawsuits that have been filed in connection with the proposed merger. all five cases were filed in the district court of harris county, texas. the plaintiffs in these lawsuits are stockholders of grant prideco. they allege, among other things, breaches of fiduciary duties of the directors of grant prideco owed to the stockholders of grant prideco in connection with the proposed merger. in one of the complaints, the plaintiffs also allege aiding and abetting of the breaches by national oilwell varco. the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the merger and ask for other legal and equitable relief. national oilwell varco and grant prideco believe that these lawsuits are without merit and intend to defend against them. this litigation could, however, delay or prevent the proposed merger. it is also possible that additional suits seeking to enjoin the proposed merger could be filed. any such suit could delay or prevent the proposed merger. risks related to national oilwell varco we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile . the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of production by non-opec countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas; level of production from known reserves; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity; national government political requirements; development of alternate energy sources; and environmental regulations. if there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the company will decline. 17 table of contents volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products. oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1990. in general, oil prices approximated $18-22 per barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have generally ranged between $25-100 per barrel since 2000. spot gas prices generally ranged between $1.80-2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999, then experienced severe spikes into the $10 range in 2001 and 2003. absent occasional spikes and dips due to imbalances in supply and demand, prices have generally ranged between $5.00-10.00 per mmbtu during the last two years. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could reduce demand for our products. competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and earnings: price changes; new product and technology introductions; and improvements in availability and delivery. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. competition in our industry could lead to lower revenues and earnings. we have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy. we have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through acquisitions and investment in internal growth. we anticipate that we will continue to pursue an aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the company or operate any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue. we have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. we cannot assure you that we will realize expected earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors expectations. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future: fluctuations in the oil and gas industry; competition; the ability to service the debt obligations of the company; the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices; the ability to manage and control operating costs of the company; fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the united states and abroad; and the ability to protect our intellectual property rights. 18 table of contents there are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability and currency restrictions. approximately 59% of our revenues in 2007 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in canada, europe, the middle east, africa, southeast asia, south america and other international markets. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies. under broad powers granted to the president of venezuela by the national assembly on january 31, 2007, the venezuelan government began asserting closer government control over its oil and gas reserves. the company generated revenue of $69.6 million from its venezuelan operations in 2007, and as of december 31, 2007 had a net equity investment in venezuela of $53.7 million. these political events could adversely affect our operations in venezuela (where we have operated for nearly 40 years) and financial results in the future. the results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the canadian dollar, the euro, the british pound and the norwegian kroner. approximately 59% of our 2007 revenue was derived from sales outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. thus, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income. because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. we also use derivative financial instruments to further reduce our net exposure to currency exchange fluctuations. we had forward contracts with a notional amount of $4,104.1 million (with a fair value of $103.0 million) as of december 31, 2007 to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are also subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results. an impairment of goodwill could reduce our earnings. we recorded approximately $2.4 billion of goodwill on the consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2007. goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity and increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. 19 table of contents our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or environmental damage and suspension of operations. our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment. as of december 31, 2007, we had a backlog of approximately $9 billion of drilling equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by our rig technology group. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market and subject us to contractual penalties: our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this drilling equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; and our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control. such developments could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. 20 table of contents glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raises and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds (pdcs). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. 21 table of contents directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1) in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2) in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3) in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four- or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four- or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2 1 /2 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in 22 table of contents the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. compare break out. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. 23 table of contents rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shaker see shale shaker shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. 24 table of contents top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oilwell to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange rates. provision for income taxes the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2007 was 33.3% compared to 33.9% for 2006. the lower 2007 tax rate was due primarily to a higher percentage of earnings in foreign jurisdictions with lower tax rates, favorable resolution of uncertain tax positions associated with prior years and increased tax benefits in the us from manufacturing activities. these benefits were partially offset by increased state income tax in the us from the new texas margins tax, incremental us tax on repatriated foreign earnings and the loss of tax benefits in the us associated with export sales in 2006 that was fully terminated for 2007. the us laws granting this export tax benefit were modified as part of the american jobs creation act of 2004 and this benefit is no longer available. a new tax benefit associated with us manufacturing operations passed into law under the same act will be phased in over a five year period beginning in 2005. whereas the timing of the phase out of the export tax benefit and the phase in of the manufacturing tax benefit may differ, we expect the tax reduction associated with the new manufacturing deduction, when fully implemented, to be similar in amount to the export benefit. we anticipate our tax rate for 2008 to be in the range of approximately 32% to 34% for continuing operations. 39 table of contents years ended december 31, 2006 and december 31, 2005 the following table summarizes the company revenue and operating profit by operating segment in 2006 and 2005. the actual results include results from varco operations from the acquisition date of march 11, 2005 (in millions): years ended december 31, variance 2006 2005 $ % revenue: rig technology $ 3,584.9 $ 2,216.8 $ 1,368.1 61.7 % petroleum services supplies 2,425.0 1,645.8 779.2 47.3 % distribution services 1,369.6 1,074.5 295.1 27.5 % eliminations (353.7 ) (292.6 ) (61.1 ) 20.9 % total revenue $ 7,025.8 $ 4,644.5 $ 2,381.3 51.3 % operating profit: rig technology $ 608.5 $ 238.4 $ 370.1 155.2 % petroleum services supplies 545.6 281.0 264.6 94.2 % distribution services 94.0 46.6 47.4 101.7 % unallocated expenses and eliminations (137.0 ) (89.2 ) (47.8 ) 53.6 % total operating profit $ 1,111.1 $ 476.8 $ 634.3 133.0 % operating profit %: rig technology 17.0 % 10.8 % petroleum services supplies 22.5 % 17.1 % distribution services 6.9 % 4.3 % total operating profit % 15.8 % 10.3 % rig technology rig technology revenue for the year ended december 31, 2006 was $3,584.9 million, an increase of $1,368.1 million (61.7%) compared to 2005. the increase can be attributed to the growing market for capital equipment, as evidenced by backlog growth, price increases implemented in 2005 and 2006, increases in spare parts and service revenue, and the merger with varco, which was completed effective march 11, 2005. the increase in orders and backlog can be attributed to increased rig construction projects and higher capital investment by drilling contractors in 2006 as compared to 2005. operating profit from rig technology was $608.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2006, an increase of $370.1 million (155.2%) over the same period of 2005. the increase in operating profit was largely due to the increased activity and pricing discussed above and the 2005 merger with varco. additionally, 2005 operating profit included a second quarter charge of $21.7 million taken on a large kazakhstan rig fabrication project as a result of additional costs attributed to higher rig-up and material costs than originally planned. the rig technology group monitors its capital equipment backlog to plan its business. new orders are added to backlog only when we receive a firm written order for major drilling rig components or a signed contract related to a construction project. the capital equipment backlog was $6.0 billion at december 31, 2006, an increase of $3.7 billion (161.2%) over backlog of $2.3 billion at december 31, 2005. substantially all of the current backlog will be delivered by the end of 2009. petroleum services supplies revenue from petroleum services supplies was $2,425.0 million for 2006 compared to $1,645.8 million for 2005, an increase of $779.2 million (47.3%). in part, the increase was attributable to the addition of product lines acquired from varco, which totaled approximately $192.9 million. the remaining increase was attributable to the higher demand for all products and services offered by the segment. solids control equipment sales and rentals, rig instrumentation packages, drill pipe coating services, fiberglass pipe, and pumping products achieved revenue increases ranging from 35% to 50%. these increases were the result of strong north america and worldwide drilling markets, as reflected by rig count increases of 15% and 11%, respectively, for 2006 compared to 2005. petroleum services supplies also benefited from price increases implemented during 2005. 40 table of contents operating profit from petroleum services supplies was $545.6 million for 2006 compared to $281.0 million for 2005, an increase of $264.6 million (94.2%). the incremental operating profit from the addition of product lines acquired from varco was approximately $28.4 million. the majority of the remaining increase was attributable to higher profitability across virtually all product lines, driven by higher volumes and improved pricing discussed above. operating profit dollar increases ranging from 73% to 103% were achieved from downhole tool sales and rentals, sales of pumping products, inspection services, and solids control equipment sales and rentals. distribution services revenue from distribution services totaled $1,369.6 million, an increase of $295.1 million (27.5%) from the prior period. the number of drilling rigs actively searching for oil and gas is a key metric for this business segment. according to the baker hughes rig count report, the average number of rigs operating in the world in 2006 was up 11% over the prior period. the average rig count in north america in 2006 was up 15% over the prior period to 2,118 rigs with our north american revenues up $196.9 million (27%). in the international market, revenues increased 26% while international rig count activity increased by 2%. the international revenue growth over the prior period reflects additional large contract awards, the extension of us-based contracts into the international arena, increased volume from our global alliance customers and increased export activity. from a product perspective, maintenance, repair and operating supply ( mro ) commodities in 2006 experienced a 33% increase over 2005. sales of our manufactured products increased nearly 40% largely in the second half of the year. margins were up considerably for mro goods, driven by strategic bulk purchases and positioning of key commodities. oem product margins were largely flat due to a large portion of these revenues locked in at fixed margins on committed contracts. operating income increased $47.4 million in 2006 to $94.0 million or 6.9% of revenue. improved supplier rebates coupled with increased operating efficiencies largely achieved by absorbing the revenue increase across an already established distribution infrastructure and expense base were the main contributors to operating income improvement. unallocated expenses and eliminations unallocated expenses and eliminations were $137.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2006 compared to $89.2 million for 2005. the increase in operations costs was primarily due to greater inter-segment profit eliminations. in addition, stock-based compensation expense was $31.2 million for 2006 as compared to $15.6 million for 2005. the integration costs related to the varco merger were $7.9 million and $31.7 million for the years ended 2006 and 2005, respectively. interest and financial costs interest and financial costs were $48.7 million for 2006 compared to $52.9 million for 2005. the decrease was primarily due to favorable interest rate movements on the company outstanding interest rate swap agreements and repayment of the company $150 million 6.875% senior notes on july 1, 2005. see summary of outstanding debt at december 31, 2006 under liquidity and capital resources. other income (expense), net other income (expense), net was an expense of $31.3 million and income of $1.2 million for the years ended december 31, 2006 and december 31, 2005, respectively. the increase in expense was primarily due to a net foreign exchange loss which was $21.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2006, as compared to a net foreign exchange gain of $2.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2005. the 2006 foreign exchange losses were primarily due to the strengthening in norwegian kroner, british pound sterling, and euro currencies compared to the u.s. dollar. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange rates. provision for income taxes the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2006 was 33.9% compared to 32.3% for 2005. the higher 2006 tax rate was due primarily to increased state income tax expenses and charges for increases in valuation allowances related to separate company operating losses that may not be deductible in the future. the tax rates also reflect a lower percentage of earnings in foreign jurisdictions with lower tax rates and reduced benefits in the us associated with export sales in 2006 compared to 2005. the us laws granting this tax benefit were modified as part of the american jobs creation act of 2004 and this benefit will no longer be available after 2006. a new tax benefit associated with us manufacturing operations passed into law under the same act will be phased in over a five year period beginning in 2005. 41 table of contents liquidity and capital resources at december 31, 2007, the company had cash and cash equivalents of $1,841.8 million, and total debt of $890.7 million. at december 31, 2006, cash and cash equivalents were $957.4 million and total debt was $840.3 million. the increase in cash holdings was primarily a result of increased operating activities and securing project orders that require large down payments and early payment terms. the company outstanding debt at december 31, 2007 consisted of $200.0 million of 5.65% senior notes due 2012, $200.0 million of 7.25% senior notes due 2011, $150.0 million of 6.5% senior notes due 2011, $150.0 million of 5.5% senior notes due 2012, $100.0 million of 7.5% senior notes due 2008, and other debt of $90.7 million. cash provided by operating activities in 2007 was $1,188.0 million compared to cash provided by operating activities of $1,216.7 million in 2006. cash was used by operations primarily through increases in inventories of $757.6 million, receivables of $464.8 million, cost in excess of billings of $334.6 million and prepaid and other current assets of $143.6 million. these negative cash flows were offset by net income of $1,337.1 million, billings in excess of costs of $831.6 million and non-cash charges of $214.1 million. receivables increased due to greater revenue, pricing and activity in 2007 compared to 2006, while inventory increased due to continued higher costs, activity, growing backlog orders, and customer prepayments. billings in excess of costs increased due to early payment terms in relation to construction projects. for the year ended december 31, 2007, cash used by investing activities was $574.9 million compared to $530.1 million used for 2006. we used $323.9 million to complete eight acquisitions during 2007 and the final payment for nql energy services, inc. capital spending of $251.8 million was primarily related to rental assets associated with the company petroleum services supplies operations and capital expansion related to increased capacity for manufacturing operations. for the year ended december 31, 2007, cash provided by financing activities was $149.6 million compared to $41.1 million in 2006. cash was provided by financing activities through proceeds from stock options exercised of $91.3 million, excess tax benefit from exercise of stock options of $22.9 million and net borrowings of $35.4 million. we believe cash generated from operations and amounts available under the credit facilities and from other sources of debt will be sufficient to fund operations, working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements and financing obligations. we also believe increases in capital expenditures caused by any need to increase manufacturing capacity can be funded from operations or through debt financing. in addition, the company is negotiating to replace the existing $500 million unsecured credit facility with $3 billion of unsecured credit facilities. we expect the facilities to consist of a $2 billion five-year revolving credit facility, and a $1 billion, 364-day revolving credit facility. a portion of the proceeds will be used to finance the grant prideco transaction, with the credit facility closing concurrent with the grant prideco transaction closing. a summary of the company outstanding contractual obligations at december 31, 2007 is as follows (in millions): payment due by period less than 1 after 5 total year 1-3 years 4-5 years years total debt $ 890.7 $ 152.8 $ 33.8 $ 703.7 $ 0.4 operating leases 378.6 94.4 123.5 64.6 96.1 total contractual obligations $ 1,269.3 $ 247.2 $ 157.3 $ 768.3 $ 96.5 standby letters of credit $ 1,712.4 $ 719.9 $ 735.2 $ 257.3 $ as of december 31, 2007, the company had $ 53.6 million of unrecognized tax benefits. this represents the tax benefits associated with various tax positions taken, or expected to be taken, on domestic and international tax returns that have not been recognized in our financial statements due to uncertainty regarding their resolution. due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with these unrecognized tax benefits, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. accordingly, unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. for further information related to unrecognized tax benefits, see note 14, income tax, to the consolidated financial statements included herein. we intend to pursue additional acquisition candidates, but the timing, size or success of any acquisition effort and the related potential capital commitments cannot be predicted. the company expects to increase its capital spending approximately 20% in 2008 to exceed $300 million. we expect to fund future cash acquisitions and capital spending primarily with cash flow from operations and borrowings, including the unborrowed portion of the credit facility or new debt issuances, but may also issue additional equity either directly or in connection with acquisitions. there can be no assurance that additional financing for acquisitions will be available at terms acceptable to us. 42 table of contents inflation has had an impact on certain of our operations in recent years. we believe that the higher costs for energy, steel and other commodities experienced in 2007 have largely been mitigated by increased prices and component surcharges for the products we sell. however, higher steel, labor, energy or other commodity prices may adversely impact future periods. critical accounting estimates in preparing the financial statements, we make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported. we periodically evaluate our estimates and judgments that are most critical in nature which are related to revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts; allowance for doubtful accounts; inventory reserves; impairments of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill); goodwill impairment and income taxes. our estimates are based on historical experience and on our future expectations that we believe are reasonable. the combination of these factors forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results are likely to differ from our current estimates and those differences may be material. revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts the company uses the percentage-of-completion method to account for certain long-term construction contracts in the rig technology group. these long-term construction contracts include the following characteristics: the contracts include custom designs for customer specific applications; the structural design is unique and requires significant engineering efforts; and construction projects often have progress payments. this method requires the company to make estimates regarding the total costs of the project, progress against the project schedule and the estimated completion date, all of which impact the amount of revenue and gross margin the company recognizes in each reporting period. the company prepares detailed cost to complete estimates at the beginning of each project, taking into account all factors considered likely to affect gross margin. significant projects and their related costs and profit margins are updated and reviewed at least quarterly by senior management. factors that may affect future project costs and margins include shipyard access, weather, production efficiencies, availability and costs of labor, materials and subcomponents and other factors as mentioned in risk factors. these factors can significantly impact the accuracy of the company estimates and materially impact the company future reported earnings. historically, the company estimates have been reasonably dependable regarding the recognition of revenues and gross profits on percentage of completion contracts, excluding $21.7 million of losses recorded in 2005 resulting from changes in cost estimates relating to two rigs delivered to kazakhstan as discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. excluding these losses, and based upon an analysis of percentage of completion contracts for all open contracts outstanding at december 31, 2006 and 2005, adjustments (representing the differences between the estimated and actual results) to all outstanding contracts resulted in changes to gross profit margins of 0.3% ($4.3 million on $1.6 billion of outstanding contracts) and 1.1% ($12.1 million on $1.1 billion of outstanding contracts, respectively). while the company believes that its estimates on outstanding contracts at december 31, 2007 and in future periods will continue to be reasonably dependable under percentage of completion accounting, the factors identified in the preceding paragraph could result in significant adjustments in future periods. the company has recorded revenue on outstanding contracts (on a contract-to-date basis) of $3.8 billion at december 31, 2007. allowance for doubtful accounts the determination of the collectibility of amounts due from customer accounts requires the company to make judgments regarding future events and trends. allowances for doubtful accounts are determined based on a continuous process of assessing the company portfolio on an individual customer and overall basis. this process consists of a thorough review of historical collection experience, current aging status of the customer accounts, and financial condition of the company customers. based on a review of these factors, the company will establish or adjust allowances for specific customers and the accounts receivable portfolio as a whole. a substantial portion of the company revenues come from international oil companies, international shipyards, international oilfield service companies, and government-owned or government-controlled oil companies. therefore, the company has significant receivables in many foreign jurisdictions. if worldwide oil and gas drilling activity or changes in economic conditions in foreign jurisdictions deteriorate, the creditworthiness of the company customers could also deteriorate and they may be unable to pay these receivables, and additional allowances could be required. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, allowance for bad debts totaled $44.8 million and $30.4 million, or 2.1% and 1.8% of gross accounts receivable, respectively. 43 table of contents historically, the company charge-offs and provisions for the allowance for doubtful accounts have been immaterial to the company consolidated financial statements. however, because of the risk factors mentioned above, changes in our estimates could become material in future periods. inventory reserves inventory is carried at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. the company determines reserves for inventory based on historical usage of inventory on-hand, assumptions about future demand and market conditions, and estimates about potential alternative uses, which are usually limited. the company inventory consists of specialized spare parts, work in process, and raw materials to support ongoing manufacturing operations and the company large installed base of specialized equipment used throughout the oilfield. customers rely on the company to stock these specialized items to ensure that their equipment can be repaired and serviced in a timely manner. the company estimated carrying value of inventory therefore depends upon demand driven by oil and gas drilling and well remediation activity, which depends in turn upon oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the company customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, inventory reserves totaled 3.7% and 4.5% of gross inventory, respectively. recent high demand and a strong outlook for oilfield equipment sales provide the basis for the company december 31, 2007 and 2006 estimates regarding the future usage and realizable value of inventory. while inventory reserves and accruals have not had a material impact on the company financial results for the periods covered in this report, changes in worldwide oil and gas activity, or the development of new technologies which make older drilling technologies obsolete, could require the company to record additional allowances to reduce the value of its inventory. such changes in our estimates could be material under weaker market conditions or outlook. impairment of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill) long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment and identified intangible assets, comprise a significant amount of the company total assets. the company makes judgments and estimates in conjunction with the carrying value of these assets, including amounts to be capitalized, depreciation and amortization methods and estimated useful lives. additionally, the carrying values of these assets are reviewed for impairment periodically or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. an impairment loss is recorded in the period in which it is determined that the carrying amount is not recoverable. this requires the company to make long-term forecasts of its future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review. these forecasts require assumptions about demand for the company products and services, future market conditions and technological developments. the forecasts are dependent upon assumptions regarding oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the company customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. significant and unanticipated changes to these assumptions or the intended use of these assets could require a provision for impairment in a future period. there have been no impairment charges of long-lived assets for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. goodwill impairment the company has approximately $2.4 billion of goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2007. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment of goodwill could include (but are not limited to) a significant reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant reduction in worldwide well remediation activity; a significant reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. the company performs a review of goodwill for impairment annually or earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist. the annual impairment tests are performed during the fourth quarter of each year. if it is determined that goodwill is impaired, that impairment is measured based on the amount by which the book value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. the implied fair value of goodwill and identified intangibles is determined by deducting the fair value of a reporting unit identifiable assets and liabilities from the fair value of that reporting unit as a whole. additional impairment assessments may be performed on an interim basis if the company encounters events or changes in circumstances that would indicate that, more likely than not, the carrying amount of goodwill and identified intangibles has been impaired. fair value of the reporting units is determined based on 44 table of contents internal management estimates, using a combination of three methods: discounted cash flow, comparable companies, and representative transactions. changes in the assumptions used in the fair value calculation could result in an estimated reporting unit fair value that is below the carrying value, which may give rise to an impairment of goodwill. in addition to the annual review, the company also tests for impairment should an event occur or circumstances change that may indicate a reduction in the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. the company had no impairment of goodwill for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. income taxes the company is a u.s. registered company and is subject to income taxes in the u.s. the company operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. income taxes have been provided based upon the tax laws and rates of the countries in which the company operates and income is earned. the company annual tax provision is based on expected taxable income, statutory rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. the determination and evaluation of the annual tax provision and tax positions involves the interpretation of the tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which the company operates. it requires significant judgment and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events such as the amount, timing and character of income, deductions and tax credits. changes in tax laws, regulations, and treaties, foreign currency exchange restrictions or the company level of operations or profitability in each jurisdiction could impact the tax liability in any given year. the company also operates in many jurisdictions where the tax laws relating to the pricing of transactions between related parties are open to interpretation, which could potentially result in aggressive tax authorities asserting additional tax liabilities with no offsetting tax recovery in other countries. the company maintains liabilities for estimated tax exposures in jurisdictions of operation. the annual tax provision includes the impact of income tax provisions and benefits for changes to liabilities that the company considers appropriate, as well as related interest. tax exposure items primarily include potential challenges to intercompany pricing and certain tax credits which may not ultimately be sustained. these exposures are resolved primarily through the settlement of audits within these tax jurisdictions or by judicial means. the company is subject to audits by federal, state and foreign jurisdictions which may result in proposed assessments. the company believes that an appropriate liability has been established for estimated exposures under the guidance in fasb interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, which is an interpretation of the statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 109, accounting for income taxes . however, actual results may differ materially from these estimates. the company reviews these liabilities quarterly and to the extent audits or other events result in an adjustment to the liability accrued for a prior year, the effect will be recognized in the period of the event. the company currently has recorded valuation allowances that the company intends to maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. other than valuation allowances associated with tax attributes acquired through acquisitions, income tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in the company valuation allowances. the realization of remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that the company record an additional valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. an increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on future earnings. if a change in a valuation allowance occurs, which was established in connection with an acquisition, such adjustment may impact goodwill rather than the income tax provision. the company has not provided for deferred taxes on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries that are permanently reinvested. should the company make a distribution from the unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries, the company may be required to record additional taxes. unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries were $1,580.0 million and $1,116.3 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the company makes an annual determination whether to permanently reinvest these earnings. if, as a result of these reassessments, the company distributes these earnings in the future, additional tax liability would result, offset by any available foreign tax credits. the company does not believe it is possible to reasonably estimate the potential impact of changes to the assumptions and estimates identified because the resulting change to our tax liability, if any, is dependent on numerous factors which cannot be reasonably estimated. these include, among others, the amount and nature of additional taxes potentially asserted by local tax authorities; the willingness of local tax authorities to negotiate a fair settlement through an administrative process; the impartiality of the local courts; and the potential for changes in the tax paid to one country to either produce, or fail to produce, an offsetting tax change in other countries. 45 table of contents recently issued accounting standards in september 2006, the financial accounting standards board issued statement of financial accounting standards no. 157, fair value measurements ( sfas 157 ). sfas 157 establishes a framework for fair value measurements in the financial statements by providing a single definition of fair value, provides guidance on the methods used to estimate fair value and increases disclosures about estimates of fair value. sfas 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2007. we are currently evaluating the effect, if any, sfas 157 will have on our financial disclosures as well as our consolidated financial position, cash flows, and results from operations. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 158, employers accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106, and 132(r) ( sfas 158 ). sfas 158 requires employers to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income of a business entity for fiscal years ending after december 15, 2006. the requirement to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the end of the employer fiscal year is effective for fiscal years ending after december 15, 2008. the company adopted the provisions of sfas 158 recognizing the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position and recognized changes in the funded status in the year in which they occurred through comprehensive income effective december 31, 2006 with no material impact on the consolidated financial statements. we did not elect early adoption of the requirement to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of our fiscal year end. see note 10 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. in february 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 159, the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities ( sfas 159 ). sfas 159 provides entities with an option to measure many financial assets and liabilities and certain other items at fair value as determined on an instrument by instrument basis. the company has not yet evaluated the impact, if any, this standard might have on the company consolidated financial statements once it becomes effective on january 1, 2008. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 141r, business combinations ( sfas 141r ). sfas 141r provides revised guidance on how acquirers recognize and measure the consideration transferred, identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, noncontrolling interests, and goodwill acquired in a business combination. sfas 141r also expands required disclosures surrounding the nature and financial effects of business combinations. sfas 141r is effective, on a prospective basis, for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2008. the company does expect that this new standard will impact certain aspect of its accounting for business combinations on a prospective basis, including the determination of fair values assigned to certain purchased assets and liabilities. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 160, noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements ( sfas 160 ). sfas 160 establishes requirements for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the company (previously called minority interests) be clearly identified, presented, and disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity, but separate from the parent equity. all changes in the parent ownership interests are required to be accounted for consistently as equity transactions and any noncontrolling equity investments in deconsolidated subsidiaries must be measured initially at fair value. sfas 160 is effective, on a prospective basis, for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2008. however, presentation and disclosure requirements must be retrospectively applied to comparative financial statements. the company is currently assessing the impact of sfas 160 on its consolidated financial position and results of operations. forward looking statements some of the information in this document contains, or has incorporated by reference, forward-looking statements. statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements typically are identified by use of terms such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate, and similar words, although some forward-looking statements are expressed differently. you should be aware that our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including but not limited to changes in oil and gas prices, customer demand for our products and worldwide economic activity. you should also consider carefully the statements under risk factors which address additional factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. given these uncertainties, current or prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to update any such factors or forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. 46 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have extensive operations in foreign countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that do impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the company reported foreign currency gains (losses) of ($7.0) million, ($21.0) million, and $2.9 million, respectively. the gains (losses) were primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the 2007 foreign exchange loss is primarily the result in the strengthening of the following major currencies against the u.s. dollar: british pound 1.9%, canadian dollar 18.8%, euro 11.6% and the norwegian kroner 13.0%. further strengthening of these currencies against the u.s. dollar may continue to create similar losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the countries using the above currencies as their functional currency. certain revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. similarly, some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated u.s. dollar costs, which also gives rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. at december 31, 2007, we had entered into foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $1,024.2 million to hedge cash flow exposure to currency fluctuations in various foreign currencies. these exposures arise when local currency operating expenses are not in balance with local currency revenue collections. based on quoted market prices as of december 31, 2007 and 2006 for contracts with similar terms and maturity dates, we have recorded a gain of $11.2 million and $1.0 million, respectively, to adjust these foreign currency forward contracts to their fair market value. this gain is included in other comprehensive income in the consolidated balance sheet. it is expected that $6.4 million of the gain will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. at december 31, 2007, the company has cash flow hedges in place through the first quarter of 2011. a gain from ineffectiveness of $4.6 million is included in earnings related to these foreign currency contracts as of december 31, 2007. ineffectiveness for 2006 and 2005 was not material. at december 31, 2007, the company had foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $1,579.1 million designated and qualifying as fair value hedges to hedge exposure to currency fluctuations in various foreign currencies. based on quoted market prices as of december 31, 2007 and 2006 for contracts with similar terms and maturity dates, we recorded a gain of $79.9 million and $25.0 million, respectively, to adjust these foreign currency forward contracts to their fair market value. this gain is offset by designated losses on the firm commitments. a loss from ineffectiveness of ($0.6) million is included in earnings related to these foreign currency contracts as of december 31, 2007. ineffectiveness for 2006 and 2005 was not material. at december 31, 2007, the company had foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $279.2 million to offset exposures to the currency fluctuation of nonfunctional currency balance sheet accounts, primarily consisting of account receivables and account payables, and are not designated as hedges. therefore, changes in the fair value of these contracts are recorded each period in current earnings. at december 31, 2007, the company had foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $1,221.6 million designated and qualifying as net investment hedges of our norwegian operations. based on market prices as of december 31, 2007 for contracts with similar terms and maturity dates, we have recorded a gain of $7.5 million, net of tax of $4.4 million to adjust these foreign contracts to their fair market value. this gain is included in other comprehensive income in the consolidated balance sheet. 47 table of contents the maturity of the above forward contracts by currency is (in millions): hedge classification currency 2008 2009 2010 2011 total cash flow dkk $ 7.6 $ $ $ $ 7.6 eur 31.0 35.3 11.8 78.1 gbp 2.9 15.5 18.4 sek 0.6 0.6 sgd 0.4 0.3 0.7 usd 269.6 524.9 118.9 5.4 918.8 $ 312.1 $ 576.0 $ 130.7 $ 5.4 $ 1,024.2 fair value eur $ 170.1 $ 26.7 $ 0.6 $ $ 197.4 gbp 11.7 11.7 krw 1.0 1.0 sgd 5.9 1.3 7.2 usd 1,005.0 353.4 2.1 1.3 1,361.8 $ 1,193.7 $ 381.4 $ 2.7 $ 1.3 $ 1,579.1 balance sheet eur $ 0.1 $ $ $ $ 0.1 gbp 0.1 0.1 sdg 0.7 0.7 usd 276.8 1.5 278.3 $ 277.7 $ 1.5 $ $ $ 279.2 net investment cad $ 601.4 $ $ $ $ 601.4 nok 620.2 620.2 $ 1,221.6 $ $ $ $ 1,221.6 total $ 3,005.1 $ 958.9 $ 133.4 $ 6.7 $ 4,104.1 the company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies totaling $87.7 million as of december 31, 2007 excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on these financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect net income by $5.7 million. the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the unlikely event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. we assess the functional currencies of our operating units to ensure that the appropriate currencies are utilized in accordance with the guidance of sfas no. 52, foreign currency translation . effective january 1, 2008, we changed the functional currency of our rig technology unit in norway from the norwegian kroner to the u.s. dollar to more appropriately reflect the primary economic environment in which they operate. this change was precipitated by significant changes in the economic facts and circumstances, including: the increased order rate for large drilling platforms and components technology, the use of our norway unit as our preferred project manager of these projects, increasing revenue and cost base in u.s. dollars, and the implementation of an international cash pool. as a norwegian kroner functional unit, norway was subject to increasing foreign currency exchange risk as a result of these changes in its economic environment and was dependent upon significant hedging transactions to offset its non-functional currency positions. at december 31, 2007, our norway operations had derivatives with $2,550.5 million in notional value with a fair value of $91.3 million as compared to $1,394.6 million and $48.5 million at december 31, 2006, respectively, to mitigate foreign currency exchange risk against the u.s. dollar, our reporting currency. effective with the change in the functional currency, the company terminated these hedges. the related net position of $108.8 million associated with the terminated hedges will be recognized into earnings in the future periods the forecasted transactions affect earnings. the company has subsequent to january 1, 2008, entered into new hedges to cover the exposures as a result of the changes to u.s. dollar functional. 48 table of contents interest rate risk at december 31, 2007, our long term borrowings consisted of $100 million in 7.5% senior notes, $150 million in 6.5% senior notes, $200 million in 7.25% senior notes, $200 million in 5.65% senior notes and $150 million in 5.5% senior notes. we had $90.7 million of other borrowings at december 31, 2007. we occasionally have borrowings under our other credit facilities, and a portion of these borrowings could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either libor, nibor or euribor, or at the prime interest rate. under our credit facilities, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or euribor for 30 days to 6 months. our objective is to maintain a portion of our debt in variable rate borrowings for the flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without penalties and lower overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings. as of december 31, 2007, we had three interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $100 million associated with our 2008 senior notes. under this agreement, we receive interest at a fixed rate of 7.5% and pay interest at a floating rate of six-month libor plus a weighted average spread of approximately 4.675%. the swap agreements will settle semi-annually and will terminate in february 2008. the swap agreements originally entered into by varco were recorded at their fair market value at the date of the merger and no longer qualify as effective hedges under fas 133. the swaps have been marked-to-market for periods subsequent to the merger and any change in their value has been reported as an adjustment to interest expense. the change in the fair market value of the interest swap agreements resulted in a $0.3 million decrease in interest expense for the period ended december 31, 2007.risk factors risk factors and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the oil and gas industry in which the company participates has historically experienced significant volatility. demand for the company services and products depends primarily upon the general level of activity in the oil and gas industry worldwide, including the number of drilling rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions and the level of well remediation activity. oil and gas activity is in turn heavily influenced by, among other factors, oil and gas prices worldwide. high levels of drilling and well-remediation activity generally spur demand for the company products and services used to drill and remediate oil and gas wells. additionally, high levels of oil and gas activity increase cash flows available for drilling contractors, oilfield service companies, and manufacturers of oil country tubular goods to invest in capital equipment that the company sells. beginning in early 2004, increasing oil and gas prices led to steadily rising levels of drilling activity throughout the world. concerns about the long-term availability of oil and gas supply also began to build. consequently, the worldwide rig count increased 11% in 2006, 2% in 2007, and 7% in 2008. as a result of higher cash flows realized by many drilling contractors and other oilfield service companies, as well as the long-term concerns about supply-demand imbalance and the need to replace aging equipment, market conditions for capital equipment purchases have improved significantly since 2006 and 2007, resulting in higher backlogs for the company at the end of 2008 compared to the end of 2006 and 2007. backlog for the company was at approximately $11.1 billion at december 31, 2008 compared to approximately $9.0 billion and $6.0 billion for december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. in 2008, most of the company rig technology revenue resulted from major capital expenditures of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, and oil companies on rig construction and refurbishment, and well servicing equipment. these capital expenditures are influenced by the amount of cash flow that contractors and service companies generate from drilling, completion, and remediation activity; as well as by the availability of financing, the outlook for future drilling and well servicing activity, and other factors. generally the company believes the demand for capital equipment lags increases in the level of drilling activity. the remainder of the rig technology segment revenue in 2008 was related to the sale of spare parts and consumables, the provision of equipment-repair services, and the rental of equipment, which the company believes are generally determined directly by the level of drilling and well servicing activity. 3 table of contents the majority of the company petroleum services supplies revenue is closely tied to drilling activity, although a portion is related to the sale of capital equipment to drilling contractors, which may somewhat lag the level of drilling activity. portions of the segment revenue that are not tied to drilling activity include (i) the sale of progressive cavity pumps and solids control equipment for use in industrial applications, and (ii) the sale of fiberglass and composite tubing to industrial customers, which is generally unrelated to drilling or well remediation activity but may be tied somewhat to oil and gas prices. the company revenue from distribution services is almost entirely driven by drilling activity and oil and gas production activities. drilling and well servicing activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital investments to explore for and produce oil and natural gas will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which the company has no control, including: the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to maintain oil price stability through voluntary production limits of oil; the level of oil production by non-opec countries; supply and demand for oil and natural gas; general economic and political conditions; costs of exploration and production; the availability of new leases and concessions; access to external financing; and governmental regulations regarding, among other things, environmental protection, taxation, price controls and product allocations. the willingness of drilling contractors and well servicing companies to make capital expenditures for the type of specialized equipment the company provides is also influenced by numerous factors over which the company has no control, including: the general level of oil and gas well drilling and servicing; rig dayrates; access to external financing; outlook for future increases in well drilling and well remediation activity; steel prices and fabrication costs; and government regulations regarding, among other things, environmental protection, taxation, and price controls. overview of oil and gas well drilling and servicing processes oil and gas wells are usually drilled by drilling contractors using a drilling rig. a bit is attached to the end of a drill stem, which is assembled by the drilling rig and its crew from 30-foot joints of drill pipe and specialized drilling components known as downhole tools. using the conventional rotary drilling method, the drill stem is turned from the rotary table of the drilling rig by torque applied to the kelly, which is screwed into the top of the drill stem. increasingly, drilling is performed using a drilling motor, which is attached to the bottom of the drill stem and provides rotational force directly to the bit, rather than such force being supplied by the rotary table. the use of a drilling motor permits the drilling contractor to drill directionally, including horizontally. the company sells and rents drilling motors, downhole tools and drill pipe through its petroleum services supplies segment. during drilling, heavy drilling fluids or drilling muds are pumped down the drill stem and forced out through jets in the bit. the drilling mud returns to the surface through the space between the borehole wall and the drill stem, carrying with it the drill cuttings drilled out by the bit. the drill cuttings are removed from the mud by a solids control system (which can include shakers, centrifuges and other specialized equipment) and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. the solids control system permits the mud, which is often comprised of expensive chemicals, to be continuously reused and recirculated back into the hole. through its rig technology segment, the company sells the large mud pumps that are used to pump drilling mud through the drill stem. through its petroleum services supplies business, the company sells transfer pumps and mud pump consumables; sells and rents solids control equipment; and provides solids control and waste management services. many operators internally coat the drill stem to improve its hydraulic efficiency and protect it from corrosive fluids sometimes encountered during drilling, and inspect and assess the integrity of the drill pipe from time to time. the company provides drill pipe inspection and coating services, and applies hardbanding material to drill pipe to improve its wear characteristics. these services are provided through the company petroleum services supplies segment. as the hole depth increases, the kelly must be removed frequently so that additional 30-foot joints of drill pipe can be added to the drill stem. when the bit becomes dull or the equipment at the bottom of the drill stem including the drilling motors otherwise requires servicing, the entire drill stem is pulled out of the hole and disassembled by disconnecting the joints of drill pipe. these are set aside or racked, the old bit is replaced or service is performed, and the drill stem is reassembled and lowered back into the hole (a process called tripping ). during drilling and tripping operations, joints of drill pipe must be screwed together and tightened ( made up ), and loosened and unscrewed ( spun out ). the company rig technology business provides drilling equipment to manipulate and maneuver the drill pipe in this manner. when the hole has reached certain depths, all of the drill pipe is pulled out of the hole and larger diameter pipe known as casing is lowered into the hole and permanently cemented in place in order to protect against collapse and contamination of the hole. the casing is typically inspected before it is lowered into the hole, a service the company petroleum services supplies business provides. the company rig technology segment manufactures pressure pumping equipment that is used to cement the casing in place. the raising and lowering of the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and the lowering of casing into the wellbore, are accomplished with the rig hoisting system. a conventional hoisting system is a block and tackle mechanism that works within the drilling rig derrick. the lifting of this mechanism is performed via a series of pulleys that are attached to the drawworks at the base of the derrick. the company rig technology segment sells and installs drawworks and pipe hoisting systems. during the course of normal drilling operations, the drill stem passes through different geological formations, which exhibit varying pressure characteristics. if this 4 table of contents pressure is not contained, oil, gas and/or water would flow out of these formations to the surface. the two means of containing these pressures are (i) primarily the circulation of drilling muds while drilling and (ii) secondarily the use of blowout preventers should the mud prove inadequate and in an emergency situation. the company rig technology group sells and services blowout preventers ( bops ). drilling muds are carefully designed to exhibit certain qualities that optimize the drilling process. in addition to containing formation pressure, they must (i) provide power to the drilling motor, (ii) carry drilled solids to the surface, (iii) protect the drilled formations from being damaged, and (iv) cool the drill bit. achieving these objectives often requires a formulation specific to a given well and can involve the use of expensive chemicals as well as natural materials such as certain types of clay. the fluid itself is often oil or more expensive synthetic mud. given this expense, it is highly desirable to reuse as much of the drilling mud as possible. solids control equipment such as shale shakers, centrifuges, cuttings dryers, and mud cleaners help accomplish this objective. the company petroleum services supplies group rents, sells, operates and services this equipment. drilling muds are formulated based on expected drilling conditions. however, as the hole is drilled, the drill stem may encounter a high pressure zone where the mud density is inadequate to maintain sufficient pressure. should efforts to weight up the mud in order to contain such a pressure kick fail, a blowout could result, whereby reservoir fluids would flow uncontrolled into the well. to prevent blowouts to the surface of the well, a series of high-pressure valves known as blowout preventers are positioned at the top of the well and, when activated, form tight seals that prevent the escape of fluids. when closed, conventional bops prevent normal rig operations. therefore, the bops are activated only if drilling mud and normal well control procedures cannot safely contain the pressure. bops have been designed to contain pressures of up to 20,000 psi. the operations of the rig and the condition of the drilling mud are closely monitored by various sensors, which measure operating parameters such as the weight on the rig hook, the incidence of pressure kicks, the operation of the drilling mud pumps, etc. through its rig technology segment, the company sells and rents drilling rig instrumentation packages that perform these monitoring functions. during the drilling and completion of a well, there exists an ongoing need for various consumables and spare parts. while most of these items are small, in the aggregate they represent an important element of the process. since it is impractical for each drilling location to have a full supply of these items, drilling contractors and well service companies tend to rely on third parties to stock and deliver these items. the company provides this capability through its distribution services segment, which stocks and sells spares and consumables made by third parties, as well as spares and consumables made by the company. after the well has reached its total depth and the final section of casing has been set, the drilling rig is moved off of the well and the well is prepared to begin producing oil or gas in a process known as well completion. well completion usually involves installing production tubing concentrically in the casing. due to the corrosive nature of many produced fluids, production tubing is often inspected and coated, services offered by the company petroleum services supplies business. sometimes operators choose to use corrosion resistant composite materials (which the company offers through its petroleum services supplies business), or corrosion-resistant alloys, or operators sometimes pump fluids into wells to inhibit corrosion. from time to time, a producing well may undergo workover procedures to extend its life and increase its production rate. workover rigs are used to disassemble the wellhead, tubing and other completion components of an existing well in order to stimulate or remediate the well. workover rigs are similar to drilling rigs in their capabilities to handle tubing, but are usually smaller and somewhat less sophisticated. the company offers a comprehensive range of workover rigs through its rig technology segment. tubing and sucker rods removed from a well during a well remediation operation are often inspected to determine their suitability to be reused in the well, which is a service the company petroleum services supplies business provides. frequently coiled tubing units or wireline units are used to accomplish certain well remediation operations or well completions. coiled tubing is a recent advancement in petroleum technology consisting of a continuous length of reeled steel tubing which can be injected concentrically into the production tubing all the way to the bottom of most wells. it permits many operations to be performed without disassembling the production tubing, and without curtailing the production of the well. wireline winch units are devices that utilize single-strand or multistrand wires to perform well remediation operations, such as lowering tools and transmitting data to the surface. through the rig technology segment, the company sells and rents various types of coiled tubing equipment, and wireline equipment and tools. the company also manufactures and sells coiled tubing pipe through its petroleum services supplies segment. rig technology the company has a long tradition of pioneering innovations in drilling and well servicing equipment which improve the efficiency, safety, and cost of drilling and well servicing operations. the rig technology segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of top drives, automated pipe handling systems, motion compensation systems, rig controls, bops, handling tools, drawworks, risers, rotary tables, mud pumps, cranes, drilling motors and other drilling equipment for both the onshore and offshore markets. the rig technology segment also manufactures entire rig packages, both drilling and workover, in addition to well servicing equipment such as coiled tubing units, pressure pumping equipment, and wireline winches. the rig technology group sells directly to drilling 5 table of contents contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. the rig technology segment rents and sells proprietary drilling rig instrumentation packages and control systems which monitor various processes throughout the drilling operation, under the name md /totco ( instrumentation ). demand for its products, several of which are described below, is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. land rig packages . nov designs, manufactures, assembles, upgrades, and supplies equipment sets to a variety of land drilling rigs, including those specifically designed to operate in harsh environments such as the arctic circle and the desert. our key land rig product names include the ideal rig and rapid rig . nov recent rig packages are designed to be safer and fast moving, to utilize ac technology, and to reduce manpower required to operate a rig. top drives . the top drive drilling system ( tds ), originally introduced by nov in 1982, significantly alters the traditional drilling process. the tds rotates the drill stem from its top, rather than by the rotary table, with a large electric motor affixed to rails installed in the derrick that traverses the length of the derrick to the rig floor. therefore, the tds eliminates the use of the conventional rotary table for drilling. components of the tds also are used to connect additional joints of drill pipe to the drill stem during drilling operations, enabling drilling with three joints of drill pipe compared to traditionally drilling with one joint of drill pipe. additionally, the tds facilitates horizontal and extended reach drilling. drilling motors. nov has helped lead the application of ac motor technology in the oilfield industry. we are now transitioning from buying motors from third parties to building them in our own facilities and further developing motor technology, including the introduction of permanent magnet motor technology to the industry. these permanent magnet motors are being used in top drives, cranes, mud pumps, winches, and drawworks. rotary equipment . the alternative to using a tds to rotate the drill stem is to use a rotary table, which rotates the pipe at the floor of the rig. the rig technology group produces rotary tables as well as kelly bushings and master bushings for most sizes of kellys and makes of rotary tables. in 1998, nov introduced the rotary support table for use on rigs with a tds. the rotary support table is used in concert with the tds to completely eliminate the need for the larger conventional rotary table. pipe handling systems . pipe racking systems are used to handle drill pipe, casing and tubing on a drilling rig. vertical pipe racking systems move drill pipe and casing between the well and a storage ( racking ) area on the rig floor. horizontal racking systems are used to handle tubulars while stored horizontally (for example, on the pipe deck of an offshore rig) and transport tubulars up to the rig floor and into a vertical position for use in the drilling process. vertical pipe racking systems are used predominantly on offshore rigs and are found on almost all floating rigs. mechanical vertical pipe racking systems greatly reduce the manual effort involved in pipe handling. pipe racking systems, introduced by nov in 1985, provide a fully automated mechanism for handling and racking drill pipe during drilling and tripping operations, spinning and torquing drill pipe, and automatic hoisting and racking of disconnected joints of drill pipe. these functions can be integrated via computer controlled sequencing, and operated by a driller in an environmentally secure cabin. an important element of this system is the iron roughneck, which was originally introduced by nov in 1976 and is an automated device that makes pipe connections on the rig floor and requires less direct involvement of rig floor personnel in potentially dangerous operations. the automated roughneck is an automated microprocessor-controlled version of the iron roughneck. horizontal pipe transfer systems were introduced by nov in 1993. they include the pipe deck machine ( pdm ), which is used to manipulate and move tubulars while stored in a horizontal position; the pipe transfer conveyor ( ptc ), which transports sections of pipe to the rig floor; and a pickup laydown system ( pls ), which raises the pipe to a vertical position for transfer to a vertical racking system. these components may be employed separately, or incorporated together to form a complete horizontal racking system, known as the pipe transfer system ( pts ). pipe handling tools . the company pipe handling tools are designed to enhance the safety, efficiency and reliability of pipe handling operations. many of these tools have provided innovative methods of performing the designated task through mechanization of functions previously performed manually. the rig technology group manufactures various tools used to grip, hold, raise, and lower pipe, and in the making up and breaking out of drill pipe, workstrings, casing and production tubulars including spinning wrenches, manual tongs, torque wrenches and kelly spinners. mud pumps. mud pumps are high pressure pumps located on the rig that force drilling mud down the drill pipe, through the drill bit, and up the space between the drill pipe and the drilled formation (the annulus ) back to the surface. these pumps, which generate pressures of up to 7,500 psi, must therefore be capable of displacing drilling fluids several thousand feet down and back up the well bore. the conventional mud pump design, known as the triplex pump, uses three reciprocating pistons oriented horizontally. recently, nov has introduced the hex pump, which uses six pumping cylinders, versus the three used in the triplex pump. along with other design features, the greater number of cylinders reduces pulsations (or surges) and increases the output available from a given 6 table of contents footprint. reduced pulsation is desirable where downhole measurement equipment is being used during the drilling process, as is often the case in directional drilling. hoisting systems . hoisting systems are used to raise or lower the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and to lower casing into the wellbore. the drawworks is the heart of the hoisting system. it is a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line, which is in turn connected to the drill stem at the top of the derrick. the drawworks also plays an important role in keeping the weight on the drill bit at a desired level. this task is particularly challenging on offshore drilling rigs, which are subject to wave motion. to address this, nov has introduced the active heave drilling ( ahd ) drawworks. the ahd drawworks uses computer-controlled motors to compensate for the motion experienced in offshore drilling operations. cranes. nov provides a comprehensive range of crane solutions, with purpose-built products for all segments of the oil and gas industry as well as many other markets. the company encompasses a broad collection of brand names with international recognition, and includes a large staff of engineers specializing in the design of cranes and related equipment. the product range extends from small cargo-handling cranes to the world largest marine cranes. in all, the company provides over twenty crane product lines that include standard model configurations as well as custom-engineered and specialty cranes. motion compensation systems . traditionally, motion compensation equipment is located on top of the drilling rig and serves to stabilize the bit on the bottom of the hole, increasing drilling effectiveness of floating offshore rigs by compensating for wave and wind action. the ahd drawworks, discussed above, was introduced to eliminate weight and improve safety, removing the compensator from the top of the rig and integrating it into the drawworks system. in addition to the ahd drawworks, nov has introduced an active heave compensation ( ahc ) system that goes beyond the capabilities of the ahd drawworks to handle the most severe weather. additionally, nov tensioning systems provide continuous axial tension to the marine riser pipe (larger diameter pipe which connects floating drilling rigs to the well on the ocean floor) and guide lines on floating drilling rigs, tension leg platforms and jack-up drilling rigs. blowout preventers . bops are devices used to seal the space ( annulus ) between the drill pipe and the borehole to prevent blowouts (uncontrolled flows of formation fluids and gases to the surface). the rig technology group manufactures a wide array of bops used in various situations. ram and annular bops are back-up devices that are activated only if other techniques for controlling pressure in the wellbore are inadequate. when closed, these devices prevent normal rig operations. ram bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing rams (thick heavy blocks of steel) against each other across the wellbore. specially designed packers seal around specific sizes of pipe in the wellbore, shear pipe in the wellbore or close off an open hole. annular bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing a rubber packing unit around the drill pipe or kelly or by sealing against itself if nothing is in the hole. nov pressure control while drilling ( pcwd ) bop, introduced in 1995, allows operators to drill at pressures up to 2,000 psi without interrupting normal operations, and can act as a normal spherical bop at pressures up to 5,000 psi. in 1998, nov introduced the nxt ram type bop which eliminates door bolts, providing significant weight, rig-time, and space savings. its unique features make subsea operation more efficient through faster ram configuration changes without tripping the bop stack. in 2004, nov introduced the lxt, which features many of the design elements of the nxt, but is targeted at the land market. in 2005, the company began commercializing technology related to a continuous circulation device. this device enables drilling contractors to make and break drill pipe connections without stopping the circulation of drilling fluids, which helps increase drilling efficiency. derricks and substructures. drilling activities are carried out from a drilling rig. a drilling rig consists of one or two derricks; the substructure that supports the derrick(s); and the rig package, which consists of the various pieces of equipment discussed above. the rig technology segment designs, fabricates and services derricks used in both onshore and offshore applications, and substructures used in onshore applications. the rig technology group also works with shipyards in the fabrication of substructures for offshore drilling rigs. instrumentation . the company instrumentation business provides drilling rig operators real time measurement and monitoring of critical parameters required to improve rig safety and efficiency. in 1999, the company introduced its rigsense wellsite information system, which combines leading hardware and software technologies into an integrated drilling rig package. access of drilling data is provided to offsite locations, enabling company personnel to monitor drilling operations from an office environment, through a secure link. systems are both sold and rented, and are comprised of hazardous area sensors placed throughout the rig to measure critical drilling parameters; all networked back to a central command station for review, recording and interpretation. this allows key rig personnel to perform individual jobs more effectively. the company has evolved from data collection to a leading drilling information provider by using state-of-the-art satellite communications to increase operational efficiencies between drilling rigs and their corporate office. the company offers unique business integration services to directly integrate information into business applications that improves accuracy and assists drilling contractors in managing their drilling business. reports on drilling activities and processes are now provided from the rig site as a part of the drillsuite business solution to assist the drilling contractor in managing their business of drilling. drillsuite allows contractors to streamline administration by eliminating manual entry of data, 7 table of contents promotes accurate payroll processing and invoicing, and includes asset tracking and preventive maintenance management through its rigms solution. the real time information provided also allows the company to advance the drilling process using advanced drilling algorithms and electronic controls such as our wildcat auto drilling system for better execution of the well plan, enhanced rates of penetration, reduced program costs, and improved wellbore quality. complimenting the company surface solutions is a portfolio of down-hole instrumentation ( dhi ) products for both straight-hole and directional markets. key advancements in this area include the introduction of the company time saving etotco electronic drift recorder, which serves as an electronic equivalent to the traditional mechanical drift tool that helped to launch the company in 1929. as a pioneer in down-hole electromagnetic ( em ) communications for mwd tools, the company serves the market of independent directional drillers with sales and rental business models via its blackstar em mwd group. the em advantage allows the benefits of mwd operations to be realized for drilling situations where traditional mud-pulsed communications are problematic with respect to wellbore quality. coiled tubing equipment . coiled tubing consists of flexible steel tubing manufactured in a continuous string and spooled on a reel. it can extend several thousand feet in length and is run in and out of the wellbore at a high rate of speed by a hydraulically operated coiled tubing unit. a coiled tubing unit is typically mounted on a truck or skid (steel frames on which portable equipment is mounted to facilitate handling with cranes or flatbed trucks) and consists of a hydraulically operated tubing reel or drum, an injector head which pushes or pulls the tubing in or out of the wellbore, and various power and control systems. coiled tubing is typically used with sophisticated pressure control equipment which permits the operator to continue to safely produce the well. the rig technology group manufactures and sells both coiled tubing units and the ancillary pressure control equipment used in these operations. through its acquisition of rolligon in late 2006, the company enhanced its portfolio by adding additional pressure pumping and coiled tubing equipment products. currently, most coiled tubing units are used in well remediation and completion applications. the company believes that advances in the manufacturing process of coiled tubing, tubing fatigue protection and the capability to manufacture larger diameter and increased wall thickness coiled tubing strings have resulted in increased uses and applications for coiled tubing products. for example, some well operators are now using coiled tubing in drilling applications such as slim hole re-entries of existing wells. nov engineered and manufactured the first coiled tubing units built specifically for coiled tubing drilling in 1996. generally, the rig technology group supplies customers with the equipment and components necessary to use coiled tubing, which the customers typically purchase separately. the group coiled tubing product line consists of coiled tubing units, coiled tubing pressure control equipment, pressure pumping equipment, snubbing units (which are units that force tubulars into a well when pressure is contained within the wellbore), nitrogen pumping equipment and cementing, stimulation, fracturing and blending equipment. wireline equipment . nov wireline products include wireline drum units, which consist of a spool or drum of wireline cable, mounted in a mobile vehicle or skid, which works in conjunction with a source of power (an engine mounted in the vehicle or within a separate power pack skid). the wireline drum unit is used to spool wireline cable into or out of a well, in order to perform surveys inside the well, sample fluids from the bottom of the well, retrieve or replace components from inside the well, or to perform other well remediation or survey operations. the wireline used may be slick line , which is conventional steel cable used to convey tools in or out of the well, or electric line , which contains an imbedded single-conductor or multi-conductor electrical line which permits communication between the surface and electronic instruments attached to the end of the wireline at the bottom of the well. wireline units are usually used in conjunction with a variety of other pressure control equipment which permit safe access into wells while they are flowing and under pressure at the surface. the company engineers and manufactures a broad range of pressure control equipment for wireline operations, including wireline blowout preventers, strippers, packers, lubricators and grease injection units. additionally, the company makes wireline rigging equipment such as mast trucks. facilities. the company conducts rig technology manufacturing operations at major facilities in houston, galena park, sugar land, conroe, anderson, fort worth and pampa, texas; duncan and tulsa, oklahoma; orange, california; calgary, nisku and edmonton, canada; mexicali, mexico; aberdeen, scotland; kristiansand, and stavanger, norway; etten-leur, the netherlands; carquefou, france; singapore; perth, australia; lanzhou and shanghai, china; jebel ali, uae; and dehradun, india. the rig technology group maintains sales and service offices in most major oilfield markets, either directly or through agents. customers and competition. the rig technology segment sells directly to drilling contractors, other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumping companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. the products of the rig technology group are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or improved availability and delivery. the group primary competitors are access oil tools; aker kvaerner as; american block; bomco; canrig (a division of nabors industries); cavins oil 8 table of contents tools; cameron; dencon oil tools; forum oilfield technologies; general electric; hong hua; idm; lti (a division of rowan companies); m i electric; tesco corporation; wirth m b gmbh; stewart stevenson, inc.; asep; crown energy technologies; huntings, ltd.; vanoil; parveen industries; and weatherford international, inc. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting its rig technology business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of products, spare parts, and consumables, breadth of product line and price. petroleum services supplies the company provides a broad range of support equipment, spare parts, consumables and services through the petroleum services supplies segment. the petroleum services supplies group sells directly to drilling contractors; well servicing companies; oil and gas producers; national oil companies; tubular processors, manufacturers and distributors; oilfield distributors; and pipeline operators. the petroleum services supplies group provides a variety of tubular services, composite tubing, and coiled tubing to oil and gas producers, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, pipeline operators, and tubular processors, manufacturers and distributors. these include inspection and reclamation services for drill pipe, casing, production tubing, sucker rods and line pipe at drilling and workover rig locations, at yards owned by its customers, at steel mills and processing facilities that manufacture tubular goods, and at facilities which it owns. the group also provides internal coating of tubular goods at several coating plants worldwide and through licensees in certain locations. additionally, the company designs, manufactures and sells high pressure fiberglass and composite tubulars for use in corrosive applications and coiled tubing for use in well servicing applications. the company customers rely on tubular inspection services to avoid failure of tubing, casing, flowlines, pipelines and drill pipe. such tubular failures are expensive and in some cases catastrophic. the company customers rely on internal coatings of tubular goods to prolong the useful lives of tubulars and to increase the volumetric throughput of in-service tubular goods. the company customers sometimes use fiberglass or composite tubulars in lieu of conventional steel tubulars, due to the corrosion-resistant properties of fiberglass and other composite materials. tubular inspection and coating services are used most frequently in operations in high-temperature, deep, corrosive oil and gas environments. in selecting a provider of tubular inspection and tubular coating services, oil and gas operators consider such factors as reputation, experience, technology of products offered, reliability and price. the company petroleum services supplies group also provides products and services that are used in the course of drilling oil and gas wells. the downhole tools business sells and rents drilling motors and specialized downhole tools that are incorporated into the drill stem during drilling operations ( downhole tools ), and are also used during fishing, well intervention, re-entry, and well completion operations. the solids control business is engaged in the provision of highly-engineered equipment, products and services which separate and manage drill cuttings produced by the drilling process ( solids control ). drill cuttings are usually contaminated with petroleum or drilling fluids, and must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. additionally, efficient separation of drill cuttings enables the re-use of often costly drilling fluids. the pumps expendables business provides centrifugal, reciprocating, and progressing cavity pumps and pump expendables ( pumps expendables ) into the global oil and gas and industrial markets. tubular coating . the company develops, manufactures and applies its proprietary tubular coatings, known as tube-kote coatings, to new and used tubulars. tubular coatings help prevent corrosion of tubulars by providing a tough plastic shield to isolate steel from corrosive oilfield fluids such as co 2 , h 2 and brine. delaying or preventing corrosion extends the life of existing tubulars, reduces the frequency of well remediation and reduces expensive interruptions in production. in addition, coatings are designed to increase the fluid flow rate through tubulars by decreasing or eliminating paraffin and scale build-up, which can reduce or block oil flow in producing wells. the smooth inner surfaces of coated tubulars often increase the fluid through-put on certain high-rate oil and gas wells by reducing friction and turbulence. the company reputation for supplying quality internal coatings is an important factor in its business, since the failure of coatings can lead to expensive production delays and premature tubular failure. in 2005, nov created a 60%-owned joint venture in china with the huabei petroleum administration bureau, which coats chinese produced drill pipe using nov proprietary coatings. in 2007, the joint venture opened a second coating plant in jiangyin city, china. tubular inspection. newly manufactured pipe sometimes contains serious defects that are not detected at the mill. in addition, pipe can be damaged in transit and during handling prior to use at the well site. as a result, exploration and production companies often have new tubulars inspected before they are placed in service to reduce the risk of tubular failures during drilling, completion, or production of oil and gas wells. used tubulars are inspected by the company to detect service-induced flaws after the tubulars are removed from operation. used drill pipe and used tubing inspection programs allow operators to replace defective lengths, thereby prolonging the life of the remaining pipe and saving the customer the cost of unnecessary tubular replacements and expenses related to tubular failures. tubular inspection services employ all major non-destructive inspection techniques, including electromagnetic, ultrasonic, magnetic flux leakage and gamma ray. these inspection services are provided both by mobile units which work at the wellhead as used tubing is removed from a well, and at fixed site tubular inspection locations. the group provides an ultrasonic inspection service for detecting potential fatigue cracks in the end area of used drill pipe, the portion of the pipe that traditionally has been the most difficult to inspect. tubular inspection facilities also offer a wide range of related services, such as api thread inspection, ring and plug gauging, and a 9 table of contents complete line of reclamation services necessary to return tubulars to useful service, including tubular cleaning and straightening, hydrostatic testing and re-threading. in addition, the company applies hardbanding material to drill pipe, to enhance its wear characteristics and reduce downhole casing wear as a result of the drilling process. in 2002, the company introduced its proprietary line of hardbanding material, tcs 8000 . the group also cleans, straightens, inspects and coats sucker rods at 11 facilities throughout the western hemisphere. additionally, new sucker rods are inspected before they are placed into service, to avoid premature failure, which can cause the oil well operator to have to pull and replace the sucker rod. mill systems and sales. the company engineers and fabricates inspection equipment for steel mills, which it sells and rents. the equipment is used for quality control purposes to detect defects in the pipe during the high-speed manufacturing process. each piece of mill inspection equipment is designed to customer specifications and is installed and serviced by the company. drill pipe products. the company manufactures and sells a variety of drill stem products used for the drilling of oil and gas wells. the principal products sold by this segment are: (1) drill pipe, (2) drill collars and heavyweight drill pipe and (3) drill stem accessories including tool joints. drill pipe is the principal tool, other than the rig, required for the drilling of an oil or gas well. its primary purpose is to connect the above-surface drilling rig to the drill bit. a drilling rig will typically have an inventory of 10,000 to 30,000 feet of drill pipe depending on the size and service requirements of the rig. joints of drill pipe are connected to each other with a welded-on tool joint to form what is commonly referred to as the drill string or drill stem. when a drilling rig is operating, motors mounted on the rig rotate the drill pipe and drill bit. in addition to connecting the drilling rig to the drill bit, drill pipe provides a mechanism to steer the drill bit and serves as a conduit for drilling fluids and cuttings. drill pipe is a capital good that can be used for the drilling of multiple wells. once a well is completed, the drill pipe may be used again in drilling another well until the drill pipe becomes damaged or wears out. in recent years, the depth and complexity of the wells our customers drill, as well as the specifications and requirements of the drill pipe they purchase, have substantially increased. a majority of the drill pipe we sell is required to meet specifications exceeding minimum american petroleum institute (api) standards. we offer a broad line of premium drilling products designed for the offshore, international and domestic drilling markets. our premium drilling products include our proprietary lines of xt and turbotorque tm connections and 5 7/8-inch drill pipe that delivers hydraulic performance superior to standard 5 1/2-inch drill pipe and weight benefits superior to standard 6 5/8-inch drill pipe. drill collars are used in the drilling process to place weight on the drill bit for better control and penetration. drill collars are located directly above the drill bit and are manufactured from a solid steel bar to provide necessary weight. heavyweight drill pipe is a thick-walled seamless tubular product that is less rigid than a drill collar. heavyweight drill pipe provides a gradual transition between the heavier drill collar and the lighter drill pipe. we also provide subs, pup joints (short and odd-sized tubular products) and other drill stem accessories. these products all perform special functions within the drill string as part of the drilling process. intelliserv. the company provides well-site data transmission services. intelliserv core product, the intelliserv network , was commercialized in february 2006 and incorporates various proprietary mechanical and electrical components into our premium drilling tubulars to allow bi-directional data transfer via the drill string. this network functions at speeds several orders of magnitude higher than current mud pulse and electromagnetic transmission systems and will potentially deliver significant improvements in drilling efficiency and well placement. intelliserv began its commercial operations in last quarter of 2006 and offers its products and services on a rental basis to oil and gas operators. voest-alpine tubulars (vat) . vat is a joint venture between the company and the austrian based voestalpine group. we have a 50.01% investment in the joint venture which is located in kindberg, austria. vat owns a tubular mill with an annual capacity of approximately 380,000 metric tons and is the primary supplier of green tubes for our u.s. based production. in addition to producing green tubes, vat produces seamless tubular products for the octg market and non-octg products used in the automotive, petrochemical, construction, mining, tunneling and transportation industries. fiberglass composite tubulars. when compared to conventional carbon steel and even corrosion-resistant alloys, resin-impregnated fiberglass and other modern plastic composites often exhibit superior resistance to corrosion. some producers manage the corrosive fluids sometimes found in oil and gas fields by utilizing composite or fiberglass tubing, casing and line pipe in the operations of their fields. in 1997, the company acquired fiber glass systems, a leading provider of high pressure fiberglass tubulars used in oilfield applications, to further serve the tubular corrosion prevention needs of its customers. fiber glass systems has manufactured fiberglass pipe since 1968 under the name star , and was the first manufacturer of high-pressure fiberglass pipe to be 10 table of contents licensed by the api in 1992. through acquisitions and investments in technologies, the company has extended its fiberglass and composite tubing offering into industrial and marine applications, in addition to its oilfield market. coiled tubing. coiled tubing provides a number of significant functional advantages over the principal alternatives of conventional drill pipe and workover pipe. coiled tubing allows faster tripping, since the coiled tubing can be reeled quickly on and off a drum and in and out of a wellbore. in addition, the small size of the coiled tubing unit compared to an average workover rig or drilling rig reduces preparation time at the well site. coiled tubing permits a variety of workover and other operations to be performed without having to pull the existing production tubing from the well and allows ease of operation in horizontal or highly deviated wells. thus, operations using coiled tubing can be performed much more quickly and, in many instances, at a significantly lower cost. finally, use of coiled tubing generally allows continuous production of the well, eliminating the need to temporarily stop the flow of hydrocarbons. as a result, the economics of a workover are improved because the well can continue to produce hydrocarbons and thus produce revenues while the well treatments are occurring. continuous production also reduces the risk of formation damage which can occur when the flow of fluids is stopped or isolated. under normal operating conditions, the coiled tubing string must be replaced every three to four months. nov designs, manufactures, and sells coiled tubing under the quality tubing brand name at its mill in houston, texas. downhole tools. the company designs, manufacturers and services a wide array of downhole motors used in straight hole, directional, slim hole, and coiled tubing drilling applications. these motors are sold or leased under the brand names trudrill tm , vector tm , blackmax , and prescott tm . this business also maintains a wide variety of motor power sections, including its proprietary rotors and stators marketed under the brand name mono/monoflo, which it incorporates into its own motors and also sells to third parties. downhole drilling motors utilize hydraulic horsepower from the drilling fluid pumped down the drill stem to develop torque at the bit. motors are capable of achieving higher rotary velocities than can generally be achieved using conventional surface rotary equipment. motors are often used in conjunction with high speed pdc bits to improve rates of penetration. the downhole tools group also manufactures and sells drilling jars and fishing tools, which are marketed under the griffith tm and bowen brand names. drilling jars are placed in the drill string, where they can be used to generate a sudden, jarring motion to free the drill string should it become stuck in the wellbore during the drilling process. this jarring motion is generated using hydraulic and/or mechanical force provided at the surface. in the event that a portion of the drill string becomes stuck and cannot be jarred loose, fishing tools are run into the wellbore on the end of the drill string to retrieve the portion that is stuck. nov acquired nql energy services, inc. ( nql ) in late 2006 for approximately $300 million in cash. nql manufactures, leases, sells and services downhole tools including drilling motors, jars, shock tools, reamers, and em-mwd systems in 23 locations across seven countries. nov acquired the assets of gammaloy holdings, l.p. in 2007. gammaloy manufactures, sells and rents non-magnetic drill collars and other related products. through the acquisition of grant prideco in 2008, nov designs, manufactures and rents the andergauge brand of downhole tools, which includes variable gauge stabilizers, hydraulically and mechanically actuated under-reamers, and downhole vibration tools. these transactions have expanded nov downhole tools portfolio and increased exposure to directional drilling services. pumps expendables . the company pumps expendables business designs, manufactures, and sells pumps that are used in oil and gas drilling operations and production applications. these pumps include reciprocating, centrifugal, and progressive cavity pumps. (high pressure mud pumps are sold within the rig technology segment.) these pumps are sold as individual units and unitized packages with drivers, controls and piping. this group also manufactures fluid end expendables (liners, valves, pistons, and plungers) fluid end modules, and a complete line of dies and inserts for pipe handling. the group offers popular industry brand names like wheatley, gaso, and omega reciprocating pumps, acquired in 2000; halco centrifugal pumps, acquired in 2002; petroleum expendable products (pep), acquired in 1997; and phoenix energy products, acquired in 1998. the group also manufactures a line of commodity and high end valves and chokes used in both production and drilling applications. additionally these products are used in the fabrication of choke and kill manifolds as well as standpipe manifolds. the group manufactures its pump products in houston, odessa and marble falls, texas; tulsa and mcalester, oklahoma; scott, louisiana; manchester, england; melbourne, australia; and buenos aires, argentina. bit products. our bit products segment products and services are comprised primarily of the operations of reedhycalog. this segment is a leading global designer, manufacturer and distributor of drill bits, hole-opening or hole enlarging tools, coring services and other related technology to the oil and gas industry. this segment also services its customer base through a technical sales and marketing network in virtually every significant oil and gas-producing region in the world. the drill bit market consists of two product types: fixed-cutter bits and roller-cone bits. we manufacture and sell both product types on a global basis. we provide fixed-cutter bit types and technology under various brand names including trex , raptor , systemmatched , rotary steerable and many others. one of our most significant drill bit innovations is our trex and raptor cutter technology, which significantly increases abrasion resistance (wear life) without sacrificing impact resistance (toughness). this technology provides a 11 table of contents diamond surface that maintains a sharp, low-wear cutting edge that produces drilling results that exceed conventional standards for pdc bit performance. reedhycalog has manufactured roller-cone bits since 1916 and produces roller-cone bits for a wide variety of oil and gas drilling applications. roller-cone bits consist of three rotating cones that have cutting teeth, which penetrate the formation through a crushing action as the cones rotate in conjunction with the rotation of the drill pipe. this cutting mechanism, while less efficient than fixed-cutter bits, is more versatile in harder formations, or where the geology is changing. we manufacture roller-cone bits with milled teeth and with tungsten carbide insert teeth, which have a longer life in harder formations. we also manufacture a unique patented line of bits using a powder-metal forging technology sold under the brand tuffcutter . we market our roller-cone products and technology globally under various brand names including rockforce , titan and tuffcutter . reedhycalog coring services provide for the extraction of actual geological formations from a drilled well bore to allow geologists to examine the formations at the surface. one of the coring services utilized at reedhycalog coring services is the corion express system which allows the customer to drill and core a well without tripping pipe. corion express utilizes wireline retrievable drilling and coring elements which allow the system to transform from a drilling assembly to a coring assembly and also to wireline retrieve the geological core. xl systems. our xl system product line offers the customer an integrated package of large-bore tubular products and services for offshore wells. this product line includes our proprietary line of wedge thread marine connections on large-bore tubulars and related engineering and design services. we provide this product line for drive pipe, jet strings and conductor casing. we also offer weld-on connections and service personnel in connection with the installation of these products. in early 2007, we completed development of our new high-strength viper weld-on connector that we believe will permit us to penetrate traditional markets that do not require the enhanced performance of our proprietary wedge-thread design. customers and competition. customers for the petroleum services supplies tubular services include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield equipment and product distributors and manufacturers, oilfield service companies, pipeline operators, steel mills, and other industrial companies. the company competitors include, among others, ameron international corp, edo corporation, shawcor ltd., smith international, inc., frank international, inc., h. rosen engineering, gmbh; t.d. williamson, inc.; baker hughes incorporated; diascan; magpie; weatherford international ltd.; patterson tubular services; and precision tube (a division of tenaris). in addition, the group competes with a number of smaller regional competitors in tubular inspection. certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which this group operates have adopted policies or regulations that may give local nationals in these countries certain competitive advantages. within the company corrosion control products, certain substitutes such as non-metallic tubulars, inhibitors, corrosion resistant alloys, cathodic protection systems, and non-metallic liner systems also compete with the company products. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting this business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of products, spare parts, and consumables, breadth of product line and price. the primary customers for drilling services offered by the petroleum services supplies group include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil companies. competitors in drilling services include smith international ( swaco ); derrick manufacturing corp.; fluid systems; oil tools pte. ltd; peak energy services, ltd.; petron industries, inc.; epoch (a division of nabors industries); pason systems, inc.; robbins myers; kem-tron, inc.; double life corporation, inc.; oteco, inc.; southwest oilfield products; forum oilfield technologies; p-quip oilfield products; and a number of regional competitors. the petroleum services supplies group sells drilling services into highly competitive markets. management believes that on-site service is becoming an increasingly important competitive element in this market, and that the principal competitive factors affecting the business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, product availability and technology, breadth of product line and price. distribution services the distribution services group is a market leader in the provision of supply chain management services to drilling contractors and exploration and production companies around the world. through its network of over 200 distribution service center locations worldwide, this group stocks and sells a large line of oilfield products including consumable maintenance, repair and operating supplies, valves, fittings, flanges and spare parts that are needed throughout the drilling, completion and production process. the supplies and equipment stocked by our distribution service centers are customized to meet a wide variety of customer demands. distribution supply chain solutions for customers that choose to outsource the functions of procurement, inventory warehouse management, logistics, business process, and performance metrics reporting generate a quarter of this group revenues. in this solution offering, they leverage the flexible infrastructure of their sap erp system to streamline the acquisition process from requisition to procurement to payment, by digitally managing approval routing workflow, and by providing robust reporting functionality. 12 table of contents nov rigstore is a cutting-edge industry value offering by the distribution services group whereby they provide the installation, staffing and management of supply stores on offshore drilling rigs. with the nov rigstore business model, distribution services installs its own erp system onboard in order to access and leverage distribution global inventory, hundreds of support locations, and thousands of vendors across multiple product lines. this business model relieves the average offshore drilling rig balance sheet by providing improved accounting of these expense items, lower capital costs, extended payment on part of the driller until the item is actually issued from the onboard supply store, and removed risk of ownership from the customer. whether it is a smaller, new drilling contractor or larger, established drilling company the benefits of effective supply chain management and reduced total cost of ownership are substantial. distribution services also now provides unique one-stop-shop value propositions in the exploration and production market in key areas of artificial lift, measurement controls, valving actuation, and flow optimization. through focused effort, they have built expertise in providing applications engineering, systems parts integration, optimization solutions, and after-sales service support in the aforementioned areas. distribution services is rapidly diversifying by adding new artificial lift technologies, as well as measurement controls competencies to become the biggest global provider of equipment and services in the e p space. approximately 70% of the distribution services group sales in 2008 were in the united states and canada. the remainder comes from key international markets in latin america, the north sea, middle east, africa and the far east. the distribution services group has now expanded into oilfields in over 20 countries. the group works to strategically increase its revenue and enhance its alliances with customers by continuous expansion of product and service solutions and creation of differentiating value propositions. additionally the group leverages its extensive purchasing power to reduce the cost of the goods. the group is strategically expanding its sourcing network into low cost countries globally. customers and competition. the primary customers for distribution services include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil companies. competitors in distribution services include wilson supply (a division of smith international), ce franklin, mcjunkin red man, and a number of regional competitors. 2008 acquisitions and other investments in 2008, the company made the following acquisitions and outside investments: acquisition form operating segment date of transaction die company, inc. asset petroleum services supplies february 2008 welch power source, l.l.c. stock petroleum services supplies february 2008 hendershot tool company stock petroleum services supplies march 2008 grant prideco, inc. stock petroleum services supplies april 2008 nov fabtech joint venture rig technology april 2008 cks asset petroleum services supplies april 2008 bear pump equipment, ltd. asset petroleum services supplies august 2008 kem-tron technologies, inc. asset petroleum services supplies october 2008 sakhalin outfitters llc stock distribution services december 2008 mid-south machine, inc. stock petroleum services supplies december 2008 excluding the grant prideco acquisition, the company paid an aggregate purchase price of $171.7 million, net of cash acquired, ($170.7 million in cash and $ 1.0 million of notes payable) for acquisitions and outside investments in 2008. for the grant prideco acquisition, the company paid an aggregate of $7,198.6 million consisting of $4,135.3 million in stock (56.9 million shares), $2,837.0 million in cash, net of cash acquired and $55.4 million of stock options assumed. see note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the grant prideco acquisition. seasonal nature of the company business historically, the level of some of the company businesses has followed seasonal trends to some degree. in general the rig technology group has not experienced significant seasonal fluctuation although orders for new equipment may be modestly affected by holiday schedules. there can be no guarantee that seasonal effects will not influence future sales in this segment. in canada, the petroleum services supplies segment has typically realized high first quarter activity levels, as operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling and production areas. in past years, certain canadian businesses within petroleum services supplies and distribution services have declined during the second quarter due to warming weather conditions 13 table of contents which resulted in thawing, softer ground, difficulty accessing drill sites, and road bans that curtailed drilling activity ( canadian breakup ). however, these businesses have typically rebounded in the third and fourth quarter. petroleum services supplies activity in both the u.s. and canada sometimes increases during the third quarter and then peaks in the fourth quarter as operators spend the remaining drilling and/or production capital budgets for that year. petroleum services supplies revenues in the rocky mountain region sometimes decline in the late fourth quarter or early first quarter due to harsh winter weather. the segment fiberglass and composite tubulars business in china has typically declined in the first quarter due to the impact of weather on manufacturing and installation operations, and due to business slow downs associated with the chinese new year. the company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue. however, there can be no guarantee that spending by the company customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past or that spending by other customers will remain the same as in prior years. marketing distribution network substantially all of our rig technology capital equipment and spare parts sales, and a large portion of our smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through our direct sales force and distribution service centers. sales to foreign oil companies are often made with or through agent or representative arrangements. products within our petroleum service supplies segment are rented and sold worldwide through our own sales force and through commissioned representatives. distribution services sales are made directly through our network of distribution service centers. the rig technology segment customers include drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumpers, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. rig technology purchases can represent significant capital expenditures, and are often sold as part of a rig fabrication or major rig refurbishment package. sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the company bids jointly with other related product and services providers, such as rig fabrication yards and rig design firms. the petroleum services supplies group customers for tubular services include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, oilfield equipment and product distributors and manufacturers, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield service companies, pressure pumpers, pipeline operators, pipe mills, manufacturers and processors, and other industrial companies. certain tubular inspection and tubular coating products and services often are incorporated as a part of a tubular package sold by tubular supply stores to end users. the company primarily has direct operations in the international marketplace, but operates through agents in certain markets. the petroleum services supplies group customers for drilling services are predominantly major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, providers of drilling fluids, and other oilfield service companies. this group operates sales and distribution facilities at strategic locations worldwide to service areas with high drilling activity. strategically located service and engineering facilities provide specialty repair and maintenance services to customers. sales of capital equipment are sometimes made through rig fabricators, and often are bid as part of a rig fabrication package or rig refurbishment package. sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the company bids jointly with other related service providers. distribution services sales are made through our network of distribution service centers. customers for our products and services include drilling and other service contractors, exploration and production companies, supply companies and nationally owned or controlled drilling and production companies. the company foreign operations, which include significant operations in canada, europe, the far east, the middle east, africa and latin america, are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including foreign currency exchange risks and uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the company operates have adopted policies (or are subject to governmental policies) giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of such policies, the company relies on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationship between the company and such government-owned petroleum companies. although the company has not experienced any significant problems in foreign countries arising from nationalistic policies, political instability, economic instability or currency restrictions, there can be no assurance that such a problem will not arise in the future. see note 15 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding geographic revenue information. 14 table of contents research and new product development and intellectual property the company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights. as of december 31, 2008, the company held a substantial number of united states patents and had several patent applications pending. expiration dates of such patents range from 2009 to 2027. as of this date, the company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to inventions covered by the united states patents. additionally, the company maintains a substantial number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets. although the company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. the company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenues from new products. engineering and manufacturing the manufacturing processes for the company products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components and testing. most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel, and the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. primary manufacturing facilities for the rig technology segment are located in houston, galena park, sugar land, conroe, anderson, fort worth and pampa, texas; duncan and tulsa, oklahoma; orange, california; calgary, nisku and edmonton, canada; mexicali, mexico; aberdeen, scotland; kristiansand, and stavanger, norway; etten-leur, the netherlands; carquefou, france; singapore; perth, australia; lanzhou and shanghai, china; jebel ali, uae; and dehradun, india. the company petroleum services supplies segment manufactures or assembles the equipment and products which it rents and sells to customers, and which it uses in providing services. downhole tools are manufactured at facilities in houston, texas; nisku and edmonton, alberta; manchester and poole england; jebel ali, uae; and singapore. drill bits are manufactured at facilities in conroe, texas; stonehouse, u.k; and jurong, singapore. drill stem technology development and drill pipe are manufactured at facilities in navasota, texas; veracruz, mexico; turin, italy; jurong, singapore; and baimi town, jiangyan and jiangsu, china facilities. solids control equipment and screens are manufactured at facilities in houston and conroe, texas; new iberia, louisiana; aberdeen, scotland; nisku, canada; trinidad; shah alum and puncak alam, malaysia and macae, brazil. instrumentation equipment is manufactured at cedar park and houston, texas facilities. pumps are manufactured at facilities in houston, odessa and marble falls, texas; mcalester and tulsa, oklahoma; manchester, england; melbourne, australia; and buenos aires, argentina. the intelliserv group manufactures or assembles equipment in provo, utah. the group manufactures tubular inspection equipment and tools at its houston, texas facility for resale, and renovates and repairs equipment at its manufacturing facilities in houston, texas; celle, germany; nisku, canada; and aberdeen, scotland. fiberglass and composite tubulars and fittings are manufactured at facilities in san antonio and big spring, texas; little rock, arkansas; tulsa, oklahoma; wichita, kansas; and harbin and suzhou, china facilities, while tubular coatings are manufactured in its houston, texas facility, or through restricted sale agreements with third party manufacturers. certain of the company manufacturing facilities and certain of the company products have various certifications, including, iso 9001, api, apex and asme. raw materials the company believes that materials and components used in its servicing and manufacturing operations and purchased for sales are generally available from multiple sources. the prices paid by the company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. the company experienced higher steel prices and greater difficulty securing necessary steel supplies in 2004 and 2005 than it experienced during the preceding several years. in 2006 and 2007, the price for mild steel and standard grades stabilized while specialty alloy prices continued to rise driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. however, toward the end of 2007, the company began to see price escalations in all grades of steel that continued into 2008. during 2008, steel prices stabilized and the company began to experience some declines in steel prices late in the year. the company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to and adjusting prices on the products it sells. furthermore, nov continued to expand its supply base in 2006, 2007 and 2008 throughout the world to address our 15 table of contents customers needs. higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw material the company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. backlog the company monitors its backlog of orders within its rig technology segment to guide its planning. backlog includes orders greater than $250,000 for most items and orders for wireline units in excess of $75,000, and which require more than three months to manufacture and deliver. backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. most require reimbursement to the company for costs incurred in such an event. there can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the company will earn a profit on backlog work. our backlog for equipment at december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $11.1 billion, $9.0 billion and $6.0 billion, respectively. employees at december 31, 2008, the company had a total of 40,205 employees, of which 5,118 were temporary employees. approximately 179 employees in the company fiberglass tubulars plant in little rock, arkansas, and 140 employees of the company downhole tools product line, are subject to collective bargaining agreements. additionally, certain of the company employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile . the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of production by non-opec countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas; level of production from known reserves; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity; national government political requirements; development of alternate energy sources; and environmental regulations. if there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the company will decline. 16 table of contents volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products. oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1972. in general, oil prices approximated $18-22 per barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have generally ranged between $25-100 per barrel since 2000. in 2008, oil prices were extremely volatile - - oil prices rose to $147 per barrel in july 2008 only to fall into the $35-$45 per barrel range in december 2008. spot gas prices generally ranged between $1.80-2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999, then experienced severe spikes into the $10 range in 2001 and 2003. absent occasional spikes and dips due to imbalances in supply and demand, prices have generally ranged between $4.50-12.00 per mmbtu during the last two years. in 2008, spot gas prices continued to be extremely volatile. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could reduce demand for our products. worldwide financial and credit crisis could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. recent events have paralyzed credit markets and sparked a serious global banking crisis. most economists foresee a slow and uncertain recovery of credit markets, given the current global recession. the slowdown in worldwide economic activity caused by the global recession has reduced demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, many of our customers access the credit markets to finance their oil and natural gas drilling activity. if the recent crisis and recession reduce the availability of credit to our customers, they may reduce their drilling and production expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for our products and services. any such reduction in spending by our customers could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment. as of december 31, 2008, we had a backlog of approximately $11.1 billion of drilling equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by our rig technology group. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties: our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this drilling equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; and our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control. the company existing contracts for rig equipment carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and generally do not allow customers to cancel projects for convenience. however, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and earnings: price changes; 17 table of contents new product and technology introductions; and improvements in availability and delivery. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. competition in our industry could lead to lower revenues and earnings. we have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy. we have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through acquisitions and investment in internal growth. we anticipate that we will continue to pursue an aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the company or operate any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue. we have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. we cannot assure that we will realize earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors expectations. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future: fluctuations in the oil and gas industry; competition; the ability to service the debt obligations of the company; the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices; the ability to manage and control operating costs of the company; fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the united states and abroad; and the ability to protect our intellectual property rights. there are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability, currency restrictions, and trade and economic sanctions. approximately 66% of our revenues in 2008 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in canada, europe, the middle east, africa, southeast asia, south america and other international markets. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies. our operations outside the united states could also expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. the u.s. department of justice ( doj ), the u.s. securities and exchange commission and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the foreign corrupt practices act and other federal statutes. under trading sanctions laws, the doj may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. if any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. 18 table of contents we have received federal grand jury subpoenas requesting records related to our exports to and other activities in certain countries. we are cooperating fully with agents from the u.s. department of commerce, bureau of industry and security, in responding to the subpoenas. based on available information, we cannot predict what effect the subpoenas or any resulting government action may have on our financial position or results of operations. the results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the canadian dollar, the euro, the british pound sterling and the norwegian krone. approximately 66% of our 2008 revenue was derived from sales outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. thus, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income. because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. we also use derivative financial instruments to further reduce our net exposure to currency exchange fluctuations. we had forward contracts with a notional amount of $3,852.4 million (with a fair value of $2.3 million) as of december 31, 2008 to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are also subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results. an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings. the company has approximately $5.2 billion of goodwill and $0.8 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives on its consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2008. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant reduction in worldwide well remediation activity; a significant reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity; resulting in an increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. see additional discussion on goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets in critical accounting estimates of item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or environmental damage and suspension of operations. our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: 19 table of contents negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. 20 table of contents glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raises and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds (pdcs). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. 21 table of contents directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1. in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four- or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four- or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2 1 /2 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). 22 table of contents kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. compare break out. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. 23 table of contents rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shaker see shale shaker shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. 24 table of contents thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oilwell to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange rates. provision for income taxes the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2008 was 33.5% compared to 33.3% for 2007. the 2008 rate reflects increasing benefits in the u.s. from the tax incentive for manufacturing activities and a higher percentage of earnings in foreign jurisdictions with lower tax rates. this was partially offset by additional tax provisions related to the company decision to repatriate earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries during the year and net higher tax expense in norway related to movement in exchange rates after the change of the functional currency to the u.s. dollar. the net additional tax expense in norway included a $45.8 million charge resulting from realized foreign exchange gains on u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities. this was partially offset by a $30.3 million benefit for the same period, which was reported as provision for income tax, from the remeasurement into u.s. dollars 38 table of contents of foreign currency denominated deferred tax assets and liabilities in the balance sheet. years ended december 31, 2007 and december 31, 2006 the following table summarizes the company revenue and operating profit by operating segment in 2007 and 2006 (in millions). years ended december 31, variance 2007 2006 $ % revenue: rig technology $ 5,744.7 $ 3,584.9 $ 2,159.8 60.2 % petroleum services supplies 3,061.0 2,425.0 636.0 26.2 % distribution services 1,423.7 1,369.6 54.1 4.0 % eliminations (440.4 ) (353.7 ) (86.7 ) 24.5 % total revenue $ 9,789.0 $ 7,025.8 $ 2,763.2 39.3 % operating profit: rig technology $ 1,393.6 $ 608.5 $ 785.1 129.0 % petroleum services supplies 731.6 545.6 186.0 34.1 % distribution services 94.0 94.0 0.0 % unallocated expenses and eliminations (174.8 ) (137.0 ) (37.8 ) 27.6 % total operating profit $ 2,044.4 $ 1,111.1 $ 933.3 84.0 % operating profit %: rig technology 24.3 % 17.0 % petroleum services supplies 23.9 % 22.5 % distribution services 6.6 % 6.9 % total operating profit % 20.9 % 15.8 % rig technology rig technology revenue for the year ended december 31, 2007 was $5,744.7 million, an increase of $2,159.8 million (60.2%) compared to 2006. the increase is due to the growing market for capital equipment, as evidenced by backlog growth, price increases implemented in 2006, and increases in spare parts and service revenue. the increase in orders and backlog resulted from increased rig construction projects and higher capital investment by drilling contractors in 2007 as compared to 2006. operating profit from rig technology was $1,393.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2007, an increase of $785.1 million (129.0%) over the same period of 2006. the increase in operating profit was largely due to the increased activity and pricing discussed above. the rig technology group monitors its capital equipment backlog to plan its business. new orders are added to backlog only when we receive a firm written order for major drilling rig components or a signed contract related to a construction project. the capital equipment backlog was $9.0 billion at december 31, 2007, an increase of $3.0 billion (50.0%) over backlog of $6.0 billion at december 31, 2006. substantially all of the current backlog will be delivered by the end of 2009. petroleum services supplies revenue from petroleum services supplies was $3,061.0 million for 2007 compared to $2,425.0 million for 2006, an increase of $636.0 million (26.2%). the increase was attributable to the higher demand for all products and services offered by the segment. downhole tools sales and rentals, drill pipe coating services, and inspection equipment sales achieved revenue increases ranging from 40% to 72%. operating profit from petroleum services supplies was $731.6 million for 2007 compared to $545.6 million for 2006, an increase of $186.0 million (34.1%). the increase was attributable to higher profitability across virtually all product lines, driven by higher volumes discussed above. operating profit dollar increases ranging from 48% to 144% were achieved from downhole tool sales and rentals, drill pipe coating services and pipeline inspections. 39 table of contents distribution services revenue from distribution services totaled $1,423.7 million, an increase of $54.1 million (4.0%) from the prior period. the number of drilling rigs actively searching for oil and gas is a key metric for this business segment. worldwide rig count increased 2.4% in 2007 compared to 2006, with increases of 7.2% and 8.6% in the u.s. and international rig activity, offset almost entirely by a 26.8% decline in canada rig activity. the company distribution services segment efforts to expand in international markets along with the increasing international market activity resulted in a 22% increase in international revenue. the international revenue growth over the prior period reflects additional large contract awards, the extension of us-based contracts into the international arena, increased volume from our global alliance customers and increased export activity. operating income remained the same in 2007 at $94.0 million while margins decreased slightly to 6.6% of revenue in 2007 compared to 6.9% of revenue in 2006. the decrease in margin was primarily due to weak demand in canada and resulting lower operating profit in canada. unallocated expenses and eliminations unallocated expenses and eliminations were $174.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2007 compared to $137.0 million for 2006. the increase in operations costs was primarily due to greater inter-segment profit eliminations, an increase in employee compensation expense and greater stock-based compensation expense. the stock-based compensation expense was $43.1 million and $31.2 million for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the 2006 results also included $7.9 million of integration costs related to the 2005 merger with varco. interest and financial costs interest and financial costs were $50.3 million for 2007 compared to $48.7 million for 2006. the increase was primarily due to unfavorable interest rate movements on the company outstanding interest rate swap agreements. other income (expense), net other income (expense), net was an expense of $17.8 million and $31.3 million for the years ended december 31, 2007 and december 31, 2006, respectively. the decrease in expense was primarily due to a net foreign exchange loss which was $7.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2007, as compared to a net foreign exchange loss of $21.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2006. the 2007 foreign exchange losses were primarily due to the strengthening in norwegian kroner, british pound sterling, and euro currencies compared to the u.s. dollar. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange rates. provision for income taxes the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2007 was 33.3% compared to 33.9% for 2006. the lower 2007 tax rate was due primarily to a higher percentage of earnings in foreign jurisdictions with lower tax rates, favorable resolution of uncertain tax positions associated with prior years and increased tax benefits in the u.s. from manufacturing activities. these benefits were partially offset by increased state income tax in the u.s. from the new texas margins tax, incremental u.s. tax on repatriated foreign earnings and the loss of tax benefits in the u.s. associated with export sales in 2006 that was fully terminated for 2007. the u.s. laws granting this export tax benefit were modified as part of the american jobs creation act of 2004 and this benefit is no longer available. a new tax benefit associated with u.s. manufacturing operations passed into law under the same act will be phased in over a five year period beginning in 2005. whereas the timing of the phase out of the export tax benefit and the phase in of the manufacturing tax benefit may differ, we expect the tax reduction associated with the new manufacturing deduction, when fully implemented, to be similar in amount to the export benefit. we anticipate our tax rate for 2008 to be in the range of approximately 32% to 34% for continuing operations. 40 table of contents liquidity and capital resources at december 31, 2008, the company had cash and cash equivalents of $1,542.8 million, and total debt of $873.9 million. at december 31, 2007, cash and cash equivalents were $1,841.8 million and total debt was $890.7 million. the decrease in cash holdings was primarily due to the acquisition of grant prideco largely offset by increased operating activities and securing project orders that require large down payments and early payment terms. the company outstanding debt at december 31, 2008 consisted of $200.0 million of 5.65% senior notes due 2012, $200.0 million of 7.25% senior notes due 2011, $150.0 million of 6.5% senior notes due 2011, $150.0 million of 5.5% senior notes due 2012, $151.0 million of 6.125% senior notes due 2015 and other debt of $22.9 million. cash provided by operating activities in 2008 was $2,294.1 million compared to cash provided by operating activities of $1,188.0 million in 2007. cash was used by operations primarily through increases in inventories of $643.0 million and receivables of $625.9 million. these negative cash flows were offset by net income of $1,952.0 million, an increase in billings in excess of costs of $764.6 million and non-cash charges of $401.6 million. receivables increased due to greater revenue in 2008 compared to 2007 as the fourth quarter 2008 revenue was $3,810.2 million compared to $2,658.9 million for the fourth quarter of 2007. inventory increased due to continued higher activity and growing backlog orders. billings in excess of costs increased due to early payment terms in relation to construction projects. for the year ended december 31, 2008, cash used by investing activities was $2,473.3 million compared to $574.9 million used for 2007. we used $3,007.9 million to complete ten acquisitions during 2008, with the acquisition of grant prideco, inc. amounting to $2,837.2 million, net of cash acquired. capital spending of $378.5 million was primarily related to rental assets associated with the company petroleum services supplies operations. for the year ended december 31, 2008, cash used by financing activities was $74.0 million compared to $149.6 million provided in 2007. the company borrowed $2,730.8 million of funds during 2008, $2,000.0 million of which was for the acquisition of grant prideco on april 21, 2008. the company repaid the amount borrowed for the grant prideco acquisition and other debt in the amount of $2,919.9 million in 2008. the company also generated cash proceeds from stock options exercised of $78.0 million and excess tax benefit from exercise of stock options of $37.1 million during 2008. we believe cash on hand, cash generated from operations, and amounts available under the credit facilities and from other sources of debt will be sufficient to fund operations, working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements and financing obligations. at december 31, 2008, the company had $2,396.9 million of available funds under its two revolving credit facilities. we also believe increases in capital expenditures caused by any need to increase manufacturing capacity can be funded from operations or through debt financing. a summary of the company outstanding contractual obligations at december 31, 2008 is as follows (in millions): payment due by period less than after total 1 year 1-3 years 4-5 years 5 years contractual obligations: total debt $ 873.9 $ 4.3 $ 364.5 $ 354.0 $ 151.1 operating leases 520.8 114.1 158.0 91.8 156.9 total contractual obligations $ 1,394.7 $ 118.4 $ 522.5 $ 445.8 $ 308.0 commercial commitments: standby letters of credit $ 3,167.8 $ 1,184.1 $ 1,559.4 $ 422.7 $ 1.6 as of december 31, 2008, the company had $69.0 million of unrecognized tax benefits. this represents the tax benefits associated with various tax positions taken, or expected to be taken, on domestic and international tax returns that have not been recognized in our financial statements due to uncertainty regarding their resolution. due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with these unrecognized tax benefits, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. accordingly, unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. for further information related to unrecognized tax benefits, see note 14, income tax, to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. 41 table of contents we intend to pursue additional acquisition candidates, but the timing, size or success of any acquisition effort and the related potential capital commitments cannot be predicted. the company expects to reduce its capital spending approximately 20% in 2009 to the $300 million range. we expect to fund future cash acquisitions and capital spending primarily with cash flow from operations and borrowings, including the unborrowed portion of the credit facility or new debt issuances, but may also issue additional equity either directly or in connection with acquisitions. there can be no assurance that additional financing for acquisitions will be available at terms acceptable to us. inflation has had an impact on certain of our operations in recent years. we believe that the higher costs for energy, steel and other commodities experienced in 2008 have largely been mitigated by increased prices and component surcharges for the products we sell. however, higher steel, labor, energy or other commodity prices may adversely impact future periods. critical accounting estimates in preparing the financial statements, we make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported. we periodically evaluate our estimates and judgments that are most critical in nature which are related to revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts; allowance for doubtful accounts; inventory reserves; impairments of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets); goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and income taxes. our estimates are based on historical experience and on our future expectations that we believe are reasonable. the combination of these factors forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results are likely to differ from our current estimates and those differences may be material. revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts the company uses the percentage-of-completion method to account for certain long-term construction contracts in the rig technology group. these long-term construction contracts include the following characteristics: the contracts include custom designs for customer specific applications; the structural design is unique and requires significant engineering efforts; and construction projects often have progress payments. this method requires the company to make estimates regarding the total costs of the project, progress against the project schedule and the estimated completion date, all of which impact the amount of revenue and gross margin the company recognizes in each reporting period. the company prepares detailed cost to complete estimates at the beginning of each project, taking into account all factors considered likely to affect gross margin. significant projects and their related costs and profit margins are updated and reviewed at least quarterly by senior management. factors that may affect future project costs and margins include shipyard access, weather, production efficiencies, availability and costs of labor, materials and subcomponents and other factors as mentioned in risk factors. these factors can significantly impact the accuracy of the company estimates and materially impact the company future reported earnings. historically, the company estimates have been reasonably dependable regarding the recognition of revenues and gross profits on percentage of completion contracts. based upon an analysis of percentage of completion contracts for all open contracts outstanding at december 31, 2007 and 2006, adjustments (representing the differences between the estimated and actual results) to all outstanding contracts resulted in net changes to gross profit margins of 0.8% ($31.3 million on $3.8 billion of outstanding contracts) and 0.3% ($4.3 million on $1.6 billion of outstanding contracts), respectively. while the company believes that its estimates on outstanding contracts at december 31, 2008 and in future periods will continue to be reasonably dependable under percentage of completion accounting, the factors identified in the preceding paragraph could result in significant adjustments in future periods. the company has recorded revenue on outstanding contracts (on a contract-to-date basis) of $4.9 billion at december 31, 2008. allowance for doubtful accounts the determination of the collectibility of amounts due from customer accounts requires the company to make judgments regarding future events and trends. allowances for doubtful accounts are determined based on a continuous process of assessing the company portfolio on an individual customer and overall basis. this process consists of a thorough review of historical collection experience, current aging status of the customer accounts, and financial condition of the company customers. based on a review of these factors, the company will establish or adjust allowances for specific customers and the accounts receivable portfolio as a whole. a substantial portion of the company revenues come from international oil companies, international shipyards, international oilfield service 42 table of contents companies, and government-owned or government-controlled oil companies. therefore, the company has significant receivables in many foreign jurisdictions. if worldwide oil and gas drilling activity or changes in economic conditions in foreign jurisdictions deteriorate, the creditworthiness of the company customers could also deteriorate and they may be unable to pay these receivables, and additional allowances could be required. at december 31, 2008 and 2007, allowance for bad debts totaled $72.7 million and $44.8 million, or 2.3% and 2.1% of gross accounts receivable, respectively. historically, the company charge-offs and provisions for the allowance for doubtful accounts have been immaterial to the company consolidated financial statements. however, because of the risk factors mentioned above, changes in our estimates could become material in future periods. inventory reserves inventory is carried at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. the company determines reserves for inventory based on historical usage of inventory on-hand, assumptions about future demand and market conditions, and estimates about potential alternative uses, which are usually limited. the company inventory consists of specialized spare parts, work in process, and raw materials to support ongoing manufacturing operations and the company large installed base of specialized equipment used throughout the oilfield. customers rely on the company to stock these specialized items to ensure that their equipment can be repaired and serviced in a timely manner. the company estimated carrying value of inventory therefore depends upon demand driven by oil and gas drilling and well remediation activity, which depends in turn upon oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the company customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. at december 31, 2008 and 2007, inventory reserves totaled 3.1% and 3.7% of gross inventory, respectively. while inventory reserves and accruals have not had a material impact on the company financial results for the periods covered in this report, changes in worldwide oil and gas activity, or the development of new technologies which make older drilling technologies obsolete, could require the company to record additional allowances to reduce the value of its inventory. such changes in our estimates could be material under weaker market conditions or outlook. impairment of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets) long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment and identified intangible assets, comprise a significant amount of the company total assets. the company makes judgments and estimates in conjunction with the carrying value of these assets, including amounts to be capitalized, depreciation and amortization methods and estimated useful lives. the carrying values of these assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. an impairment loss is recorded in the period in which it is determined that the carrying amount is not recoverable. we estimate the fair value of these intangible and fixed assets using an income approach. this requires the company to make long-term forecasts of its future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review. these forecasts require assumptions about demand for the company products and services, future market conditions and technological developments. the forecasts are dependent upon assumptions regarding oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the company customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. the financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our income forecast as well as our weighted-average cost of capital, both key assumptions used in our calculation. changes to these assumptions, including, but not limited to: further sustained declines in worldwide rig counts below current analysts forecasts, further collapse of spot and futures prices for oil and gas, significant additional deterioration of external financing for our customers, higher risk premiums or higher cost of equity, or any other significant adverse economic news could require a provision for impairment in a future period. due to further significant declines in the company stock price and oil and gas commodity prices, coupled with unprecedented turbulence in the credit markets, the company determined a triggering event occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008. we performed an impairment analysis at december 31, 2008 which did not result in an impairment charge. goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets the company has approximately $5.2 billion of goodwill and $0.8 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives on its consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2008. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually or more frequently whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include, but not limited to: further sustained declines in worldwide rig counts below current analysts forecasts, further collapse of spot and futures prices for oil and gas, significant additional deterioration of external financing for our customers, higher risk premiums or higher cost of equity. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. the company performs a review of goodwill for impairment annually or earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist. the annual impairment tests are performed during the fourth quarter of each year. if it is determined that goodwill is impaired the impairment is measured based on the amount by which the book value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined by deducting the fair value of a reporting unit identifiable assets and liabilities from the fair value of that reporting unit as a whole. additional impairment assessments may be performed on an interim basis if the company encounters events or changes in circumstances that would indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill and identified intangibles has been impaired. fair value of the reporting units is determined based on internal management estimates, forecasts and judgments, using a combination of three methods: discounted cash flow, comparable companies, and representative transactions. while the company primarily uses the discounted cash flow method to assess fair value, the company uses the comparable companies and representative transaction methods to validate the discounted cash flow analysis and further support management expectations where possible. the discounted cash flow is based on management short-term and long-term forecast of operating performance for each reporting unit. the two main assumptions used in measuring goodwill impairment which bears the risk of change and could impact the company goodwill impairment analysis include the cash flow from operations from each of the company individual business units and the weighted average costs of capital for the discount rate. the starting point for each of the fourteen reporting unit cash flow from operations is the detailed annual plan. the detailed planning process takes into consideration a multitude of factors including worldwide rig activity, inflationary forces, pricing strategies, customer analysis, operational issues, competitor analysis, capital spending requirements, working capital needs, customer needs to replacing aging equipment, increased complexity of drilling, new technology, and existing backlog among other items which impact the individual reporting unit projections. cash flows beyond the specific operating plans were estimated using a terminal value calculation, which incorporated historical and forecasted financial cyclical trends for each reporting unit and considered long-term earnings growth rates. the financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted-average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate. during times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit changes are a short term or long-term trend. 43 table of contents in the fourth quarter of 2008 and in the early stages of 2009, both commodity prices and rig activity dropped significantly and as a result, projections for the remainder of 2009 also reflected substantial declines compared to 2008. the company updated its operating plans and discounted cash flows based on this information. the goodwill impairment analysis which we performed during the fourth quarter of 2008 and updated as of december 31, 2008, did not result in an impairment in the current year. the company had no impairment of goodwill for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006. the company performed a sensitivity analysis on the projected results and goodwill impairment analysis assuming revenue for each individual reporting unit decreased an additional 20% from the current projections for each of the next three years (2009, 2010, and 2011), while holding all other factors constant, and no goodwill impairment was identified for any of the reporting units. the company believes that such a 20% drop approximately corresponds to a three-year worldwide average rig count in the range of 2,300 to 2,400 active drilling rigs, a level of activity last seen approximately five years ago. the worldwide rig count has been volatile, is reasonably likely to continue to be so in the future, and has varied from a low of 1,458 rigs in 1999 to a high of 5,624 rigs in 1981. in 2008 worldwide rig activity averaged 3,336 active rigs. additionally, if the company were to increase their discount rate 200 basis points, while keeping all other assumptions constant, there would be no impairments in any of the reporting units. inherent in our projections are key assumptions relative to how long the current downward cycle might last. while we believe these assumptions are reasonable and appropriate, we will continue to monitor these, and update our impairment analysis if the cycle downturn continues for longer than expected. while the company does not believe that these events or changes are likely to occur, it is reasonably possible these events could transpire if market conditions worsen and if the market fails to recover in 2010 and/or 2011. any significant changes to these assumptions and factors could have a material impact on the company goodwill impairment analysis. other indefinite-lived intangible assets, representing trade names management intends to use indefinitely, were valued and are tested for impairment using the relief from royalty method, a form of the income approach. an impairment is measured and recognized based on the amount the book value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeds its calculated fair value as of the date of the impairment test. included in the impairment test are assumptions, for each trade name, regarding the related revenue streams attributable to the trade names, the royalty rate, and the discount rate applied. based on the company indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment analysis performed during the fourth quarter of 2008, the company had no impairment of other indefinite-lived intangible assets for the years ended december 31,2008,2007 and 2006. if any of the above assumptions change, including in some cases insignificantly, or fails to materialize, the resulting decline in our trade name estimated fair value could result in a material impairment charge. the company performed a sensitivity analysis on the projected results and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment assuming revenue for each individual trade name decreased an additional 20% from the current projections for each of the next three years (2009, 2010, and 2011), while holding all other factors constant, and a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of approximately $39 million would be incurred under those assumptions. if the discount rate applied to the fair value calculation increased by 200 basis points, and all other assumptions remained constant, a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge of approximately $94 million would be incurred under those assumptions. income taxes the company is a u.s. registered company and is subject to income taxes in the u.s. the company operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. income taxes have been provided based upon the tax laws and rates of the countries in which the company operates and income is earned. the company annual tax provision is based on expected taxable income, statutory rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. the determination and evaluation of the annual tax provision and tax positions involves the interpretation of the tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which the company operates. it requires significant judgment and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events such as the amount, timing and character of income, deductions and tax credits. changes in tax laws, regulations, and treaties, foreign currency exchange restrictions or the company level of operations or profitability in each jurisdiction could impact the tax liability in any given year. the company also operates in many jurisdictions where the tax laws relating to the pricing of transactions between related parties are open to interpretation, which could potentially result in aggressive tax authorities asserting additional tax liabilities with no offsetting tax recovery in other countries. 44 table of contents the company maintains liabilities for estimated tax exposures in jurisdictions of operation. the annual tax provision includes the impact of income tax provisions and benefits for changes to liabilities that the company considers appropriate, as well as related interest. tax exposure items primarily include potential challenges to intercompany pricing and certain tax credits which may not be ultimately sustained. these exposures are resolved primarily through the settlement of audits within these tax jurisdictions or by judicial means. the company is subject to audits by federal, state and foreign jurisdictions which may result in proposed assessments. the company believes that an appropriate liability has been established for estimated exposures under the guidance in fasb interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, which is an interpretation of the statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 109, accounting for income taxes . however, actual results may differ materially from these estimates. the company reviews these liabilities quarterly and to the extent audits or other events result in an adjustment to the liability accrued for a prior year, the effect will be recognized in the period of the event. the company currently has recorded valuation allowances that the company intends to maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. income tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in the company valuation allowances. the realization of remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that the company record an additional valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. an increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on future earnings. the company has not provided for deferred taxes on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries that are permanently reinvested. should the company make a distribution from the unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries, the company may be required to record additional taxes. unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries were $2,254.5 million and $1,580.0 million at december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. the company makes an annual determination whether to permanently reinvest these earnings. if, as a result of these reassessments, the company distributes these earnings in the future, additional tax liability would result, offset by any available foreign tax credits. the company does not believe it is possible to reasonably estimate the potential impact of changes to the assumptions and estimates identified because the resulting change to our tax liability, if any, is dependent on numerous factors which cannot be reasonably estimated. these include, among others, the amount and nature of additional taxes potentially asserted by local tax authorities; the willingness of local tax authorities to negotiate a fair settlement through an administrative process; the impartiality of the local courts; and the potential for changes in the tax paid to one country to either produce, or fail to produce, an offsetting tax change in other countries. recently issued accounting standards in september 2006, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued statement of financial accounting standards no. 157, fair value measurements ( sfas 157 ). sfas 157 establishes a framework for fair value measurements in the financial statements by providing a single definition of fair value, provides guidance on the methods used to estimate fair value and increases disclosures about estimates of fair value. in february 2008, the fasb issued fsp 157-2, which delays the effective date of sfas 157 for all nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually) until fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. the company adopted the provisions of sfas 157 for financial assets and liabilities as of january 1, 2008. at december 31, 2008, the company has determined that its financial assets of $31.6 million and liabilities of $83.1 million (primarily currency related derivatives) are level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. at december 31, 2008, the fair value of the company foreign currency forward contracts totaled $2.3 million. there was no significant impact to the company consolidated financial statements from the adoption of sfas 157. in february 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 159, the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities ( sfas 159 ). sfas 159 provides entities with an option to measure many financial assets and liabilities and certain other items at fair value as determined on an instrument by instrument basis. on january 1, 2008, the company adopted sfas 159 and elected not to measure any of its currently eligible assets and liabilities at fair value. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 141r, business combinations ( sfas 141r ). sfas 141r provides revised guidance on how acquirers recognize and measure the consideration transferred, identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, noncontrolling interests, and goodwill acquired in a business combination. sfas 141r also expands required disclosures surrounding the nature and financial effects of business combinations. sfas 141r is effective, on a prospective basis, for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2008. the company expects that this new standard will impact certain aspects of its accounting for business combinations on a prospective basis, including the determination of fair values assigned to certain purchased assets and liabilities. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 160, noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements ( sfas 160 ). sfas 160 establishes requirements for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the company (previously called 45 table of contents minority interests) be clearly identified, presented, and disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity, but separate from the parent equity. all changes in the parent ownership interests are required to be accounted for consistently as equity transactions and any noncontrolling equity investments in deconsolidated subsidiaries must be measured initially at fair value. sfas 160 is effective, on a prospective basis, for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2008. however, presentation and disclosure requirements must be retrospectively applied to comparative financial statements. the company is currently assessing the impact of sfas 160 on its consolidated financial position and results of operations. in march 2008, the fasb issued sfas no. 161, disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities an amendment of fasb statement no. 133 ( sfas 161 ). sfas 161 amends and expands the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities, with the intent to provide users of financial statements with an enhanced understanding of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for, and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity financial statements. sfas 161 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after november 15, 2008. the company is currently evaluating the potential impact that the application of sfas 161 to its nonfinancial assets and liabilities will have on its consolidated financial statements. in april 2008, the fasb issued fasb staff position ( fsp ) sfas 142-3, determination of the useful life of intangible assets ( fsp sfas 142-3 ). fsp sfas 142-3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under fasb statement no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets" . the objective of this fsp is to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under statement no. 142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under sfas 141r, business combinations" , and other u.s. gaap principles. fsp sfas 142-3 is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2008. the company is currently assessing the impact of fsp sfas 142-3 on its consolidated financial position and results of operations. forward-looking statements some of the information in this document contains, or has incorporated by reference, forward-looking statements. statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements typically are identified by use of terms such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate, and similar words, although some forward-looking statements are expressed differently. all statements herein regarding expected merger synergies are forward looking statements. you should be aware that our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including but not limited to changes in oil and gas prices, customer demand for our products and worldwide economic activity. you should also consider carefully the statements under risk factors which address additional factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. given these uncertainties, current or prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to update any such factors or forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. 46 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have extensive operations in foreign countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that do impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the company reported foreign currency gains (losses) of $50.2 million, ($7.0) million, and ($21.0) million, respectively. the gains (losses) were primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the 2008 foreign exchange gain is primarily the result in the weakening of the following major currencies of which the company has material exposure against the u.s. dollar: british pound sterling 27.5%, canadian dollar 19.7%, euro 4.3% and the norwegian krone 21.7%. further weakening of these currencies against the u.s. dollar may continue to create similar gains in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the countries using the above currencies as their functional currency. certain revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. similarly, some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated u.s. dollar costs, which also gives rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. at december 31, 2008, we had entered into foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $2,743.4 million to hedge cash flow exposure to foreign currency exchange risk of forecasted or firm commitments. these exposures arise when local currency operating expenses are not in balance with local currency revenue collections. based on quoted market prices as of december 31, 2008 and 2007 for contracts with similar terms and maturity dates, we have recorded a gain (loss) of ($142.1) million and $11.2 million, respectively, to adjust these foreign currency forward contracts to their fair market value of ($21.2) million and $14.1 million respectively. this loss is included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the consolidated balance sheet. it is expected that $48.2 million of the loss will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months with an offset by gains from the underlying transactions resulting in no impact to earnings or cash flow. at december 31, 2008, the company has cash flow hedges in place through the second quarter of 2011. a gain (loss) from ineffectiveness of ($6.1) million and $4.6 million is included in earnings related to these foreign currency contracts for the years ending december 31, 2008 and 2007 respectively. ineffectiveness for 2006 was not material. at december 31, 2008, the company had foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $131.9 million designated and qualifying as fair value hedges to hedge exposure to foreign currency exchange risk of firm commitments. based on quoted market prices as of december 31, 2008 and 2007 for contracts with similar terms and maturity dates, we recorded a gain (loss) of ($8.5) million and $79.9 million, respectively, to adjust these foreign currency forward contracts to their fair market value of ($5.6) million and $79.9 million, respectively. this loss is offset by designated gains on the firm commitments. ineffectiveness for 2008, 2007 and 2006 was not material. at december 31, 2008, the company had foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $977.1 million to offset exposures to foreign currency exchange risk of nonfunctional currency balance sheet accounts, primarily consisting of account receivables and account payables, and are not designated as hedges. therefore, changes in the fair value $29.1 million for 2008 and $0.5 million for 2007 of these contracts are recorded each period in current earnings. on january 4, 2008, the company settled the net investment hedges with notional amounts aggregating $1,221.6 million by delivering norwegian kroner and receiving u.s. dollars. the related cumulative tax-effected gain of $7.5 million was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 47 table of contents the following table details the company foregin currency exchange risk grouped by functional currency and their expected maturity periods as of december 31, 2008 (in millions except for rates): as of december 31, 2008 december 31, functional currency 2009 2010 2011 total 2007 cad buy usd/sell cad: notional amount to buy (in canadian dollars) 526.6 526.6 15.7 average cad to usd contract rate 1.1843 1.1843 0.9895 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars 13.9 13.9 (0.1 ) sell usd/buy cad: notional amount to sell (in canadian dollars) 221.5 19.7 241.2 106.7 average cad to usd contract rate 1.1248 1.0638 1.1196 1.0530 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars (15.7 ) (2.2 ) (17.9 ) 7.3 sell nok/buy cad: notional amount to buy (in canadian dollars) 590.0 average cad to usd contract rate 5.7916 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars (18.7 ) eur buy usd/sell eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 11.3 11.3 10.7 average usd to eur contract rate 1.4397 1.4397 1.3997 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars 0.4 0.4 (0.7 ) sell usd/buy eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 208.5 36.2 0.5 245.2 109.5 average usd to eur contract rate 1.4083 1.3420 1.4431 1.3986 1.3719 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars (0.9 ) 2.0 1.1 10.6 gbp sell usd/buy gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 32.7 1.0 33.7 13.2 average usd to gbp contract rate 1.5630 1.6166 1.5647 2.0418 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars (3.9 ) (0.2 ) (4.1 ) (0.6 ) nok buy eur/sell nok: notional amount to buy (in norwegian krone) 1,285.6 average nok to eur contract rate 8.1111 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars 1.9 buy gbp/sell nok: notional amount to buy (in norwegian krone) 171.3 average nok to gbp contract rate 11.4289 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars (1.0 ) buy usd/sell nok: notional amount to buy (in norwegian krone) 994.3 average nok to usd contract rate 5.8346 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars (8.3 ) sell usd/buy nok: notional amount to buy (in norwegian krone) 11,976.3 average nok to usd contract rate 5.8365 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars 87.5 usd buy dkk/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 46.6 46.6 average dkk to usd contract rate 5.4968 5.4968 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars 1.8 1.8 buy eur/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 748.0 1.0 749.0 average usd to eur contract rate 1.3790 1.4540 1.3791 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars 14.3 14.3 usd buy gbp/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 108.0 108.0 average usd to gbp contract rate 1.5623 1.5623 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars (8.1 ) (8.1 ) buy nok/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 964.5 360.8 1,325.3 average nok to usd contract rate 6.5855 6.3957 6.5338 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars (64.5 ) (36.0 ) (100.5 ) sell cad/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 632.0 average cad to usd contract rate 1.0713 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars 30.6 sell eur/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 72.4 3.5 75.9 3.4 average usd to eur contract rate 1.3832 1.2715 1.3777 1.3340 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars (1.2) - (0.3 ) (1.5 ) (0.3 ) sell nok/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 513.3 76.0 589.3 average nok to usd contract rate 5.8532 5.9424 5.8647 fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars 90.5 13.1 103.6 other currencies fair value at december 31, 2008 in u.s. dollars (0.6 ) (0.1 ) (0.7 ) (1.8 ) total fair value 26.0 (23.4 ) (0.3 ) 2.3 106.4 the company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies totaling $46.4 million as of december 31, 2008 excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on these financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect net income by $3.0 million. the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. we assess the functional currencies of our operating units to ensure that the appropriate currencies are utilized in accordance with the guidance of sfas no. 52, foreign currency translation . effective january 1, 2008, we changed the functional currency of our rig technology unit in norway from the norwegian krone to the u.s. dollar to more appropriately reflect the primary economic environment in which they operate. this change was precipitated by significant changes in the economic facts and circumstances, including: the increased order rate for large drilling platforms and components technology, the use of our norway unit as our preferred project manager of these projects, increasing revenue and cost base in u.s. dollars, and the implementation of an international cash pool denominated in u.s. dollars. as a norwegian krone functional unit, norway was subject to increasing foreign currency exchange risk as a result of these changes in its economic environment and was dependent upon significant hedging transactions to offset its non-functional currency positions. at december 31, 2007, our norway operations had foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts aggregating $2,550.5 million with a fair value of $91.3 million to mitigate foreign currency exchange risk against the u.s. dollar, our reporting currency. effective with the change in the functional currency, the company terminated these hedges. the related net gain position of $108.8 million associated with the terminated hedges has been deferred and is being recognized into earnings in the future period(s) the forecasted transactions affect earnings, of which $64.3 million has been recognized into earnings at december 31, 2008. the company has subsequent to january 1, 2008, entered into new hedges to cover the exposures as a result of the changes to u.s. dollar functional. at december 31, 2008, our norway operations had derivatives with $2,547.5 million in notional value with a fair value of $6.3 million, included in the table above. 48 table of contents interest rate risk at december 31, 2008, our long term borrowings consisted $200.0 million of 5.65% senior notes, $200.0 million of 7.25% senior notes, $150.0 million of 6.5% senior notes, $150.0 million of 5.5% senior notes and $151.0 million of 6.125% senior notes. we had $22.9 million of other borrowings at december 31, 2008. we occasionally have borrowings under our other credit facilities, and a portion of these borrowings could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either libor, nibor or euribor, or at the prime interest rate. under our credit facilities, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or euribor for 30 days to 6 months. our objective is to maintain a portion of our debt in variable rate borrowings for the flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without penalties and lower overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings. on february 15, 2008, we settled and terminated our three interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $100 million associated with our 2008 senior notes. under this agreement, we received interest at a fixed rate of 7.5% and pay interest at a floating rate of six-month libor plus a weighted average spread of approximately 4.675%. the swap agreements originally entered into by varco were recorded at their fair market value at the date of the merger and no longer qualify as effective hedges under fas 133. the swaps have been marked-to-market for periods subsequent to the merger and any change in their value has been reported as an adjustment to interest expense. the change in the fair market value of the interest swap agreements resulted in a $0.3 million increase in interest expense for the period ended december 31, 2008.risk factors and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview of oil and gas well drilling and servicing processes oil and gas wells are usually drilled by drilling contractors using a drilling rig. a bit is attached to the end of a drill stem, which is assembled by the drilling rig and its crew from 30-foot joints of drill pipe and specialized drilling components known as downhole tools. using the conventional rotary drilling method, the drill stem is turned from the rotary table of the drilling rig by torque applied to the kelly, which is screwed into the top of the drill stem. increasingly, drilling is performed using a drilling motor, which is attached to the bottom of the drill stem and provides rotational force directly to the bit, and a topdrive, a device suspended from the derrick that turns the entire drill stem, rather than such force being supplied by the rotary table. the use of drilling motors and topdrives permits the drilling contractor to drill directionally, including horizontally. the company sells and rents drilling motors, drill bits, downhole tools and drill pipe through its petroleum services &amp; supplies segment and sells topdrives through its rig technology segment. during drilling, heavy drilling fluids or drilling muds are pumped down the drill stem and forced out through jets in the bit. the drilling mud returns to the surface through the space between the borehole wall and the drill stem, carrying with it the drill cuttings drilled out by the bit. the drill cuttings are removed from the mud by a solids control system (which can include shakers, centrifuges and other specialized equipment) and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. the solids control system permits the mud, which is often comprised of expensive chemicals, to be continuously reused and re-circulated back into the hole. through its rig technology segment, the company sells the large mud pumps that are used to pump drilling mud through the drill stem. through its petroleum services &amp; supplies segment, the company sells transfer pumps and mud pump consumables; sells and rents solids control equipment; and provides solids control, waste management and drilling fluids services. many operators internally coat the drill stem to improve its hydraulic efficiency and protect it from corrosive fluids sometimes encountered during drilling, and inspect and assess the integrity of the drill pipe from time to time. the company provides drill pipe inspection and coating services, and applies hardbanding material to drill pipe to improve its wear characteristics. these services are provided through the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment. additionally, the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment manufactures and sells drill pipe. as the hole depth increases, the kelly must be removed frequently so that additional 30-foot joints of drill pipe can be added to the drill stem. when the bit becomes dull or the equipment at the bottom of the drill stem including the drilling motors otherwise requires servicing, the entire drill stem is pulled out of the hole and disassembled by disconnecting the joints of drill pipe. these are set aside or racked, the old bit is replaced or service is performed, and the drill stem is reassembled and lowered back into the hole (a process called tripping ). during drilling and tripping operations, joints of drill pipe must be screwed together and tightened ( made up ), and loosened and unscrewed ( spun out ). the rig technology segment provides drilling equipment to manipulate and maneuver the drill pipe in this manner. when the hole has reached certain depths, all of the drill pipe is pulled out of the hole and larger diameter pipe known as casing is lowered into the hole and permanently cemented in place in order to protect against collapse and contamination of the hole. the casing is typically inspected before it is lowered into the hole, a service the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment provides. the rig technology segment manufactures pressure pumping equipment that is used to cement the casing in place. 4 index to financial statements the raising and lowering of the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and the lowering of casing into the wellbore, is accomplished with the rig hoisting system. a conventional hoisting system is a block and tackle mechanism that works within the drilling rig derrick. the lifting of this mechanism is performed via a series of pulleys that are attached to the drawworks at the base of the derrick. the rig technology segment sells and installs drawworks and pipe hoisting systems. during the course of normal drilling operations, the drill stem passes through different geological formations, which exhibit varying pressure characteristics. if this pressure is not contained, oil, gas and/or water would flow out of these formations to the surface. the two means of containing these pressures are (i) primarily the circulation of drilling muds while drilling and (ii) secondarily the use of blowout preventers ( bops ) should the mud prove inadequate and in an emergency situation. the rig technology segment sells and services blowout preventers. drilling muds are carefully designed to exhibit certain qualities that optimize the drilling process. in addition to containing formation pressure, they must (i) provide power to the drilling motor, (ii) carry drilled solids to the surface, (iii) protect the drilled formations from being damaged, and (iv) cool the drill bit. achieving these objectives often requires a formulation specific to a given well and can involve the use of expensive chemicals as well as natural materials such as certain types of clay. the fluid itself is often oil or more expensive synthetic mud. given this expense, it is highly desirable to reuse as much of the drilling mud as possible. solids control equipment such as shale shakers, centrifuges, cuttings dryers, and mud cleaners help accomplish this objective. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment rents, sells, operates and services this equipment. drilling muds are formulated based on expected drilling conditions. however, as the hole is drilled, the drill stem may encounter a high pressure zone where the mud density is inadequate to maintain sufficient pressure. should efforts to weight up the mud in order to contain such a pressure kick fail, a blowout could result, whereby reservoir fluids would flow uncontrolled into the well. to prevent blowouts to the surface of the well, a series of high-pressure valves known as blowout preventers are positioned at the top of the well and, when activated, form tight seals that prevent the escape of fluids. when closed, conventional bops prevent normal rig operations. therefore, the bops are activated only if drilling mud and normal well control procedures cannot safely contain the pressure. the operations of the rig and the condition of the drilling mud are closely monitored by various sensors, which measure operating parameters such as the weight on the rig hook, the incidence of pressure kicks, the operation of the drilling mud pumps, etc. through its rig technology segment, the company sells and rents drilling rig instrumentation packages that perform these monitoring functions. during the drilling and completion of a well, there exists an ongoing need for various consumables and spare parts. while most of these items are small, in the aggregate they represent an important element of the process. since it is impractical for each drilling location to have a full supply of these items, drilling contractors and well service companies tend to rely on third parties to stock and deliver these items. the company provides this capability through its distribution &amp; transmission segment, which stocks and sells spares and consumables made by third parties, as well as spares and consumables made by the company. after the well has reached its total depth and the final section of casing has been set, the drilling rig is moved off of the well and the well is prepared to begin producing oil or gas in a process known as well completion. well completion usually involves installing production tubing concentrically in the casing. due to the corrosive nature of many produced fluids, production tubing is often inspected and coated, services offered by the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment. sometimes operators choose to use corrosion resistant composite materials, which the company also offers through its petroleum services &amp; supplies segment, or corrosion-resistant alloys, or operators sometimes pump fluids into wells to inhibit corrosion. from time to time, a producing well may undergo workover procedures to extend its life and increase its production rate. workover rigs are used to disassemble the wellhead, tubing and other completion components of an existing well in order to stimulate or remediate the well. workover rigs are similar to drilling rigs in their capabilities to handle tubing, but are usually smaller and somewhat less sophisticated. the company offers a comprehensive range of workover rigs through its rig technology segment. tubing and sucker rods removed from a well during a well remediation operation are often inspected to determine their suitability to be reused in the well, which is a service the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment provides. frequently coiled tubing units or wireline units are used to accomplish certain well remediation operations or well completions. coiled tubing is a recent advancement in petroleum technology consisting of a continuous length of reeled steel tubing which can be injected concentrically into the production tubing all the way to the bottom of most wells. it permits many operations to be performed without disassembling the production tubing, and without curtailing the production of the well. wireline winch units are devices that utilize single-strand or multi-strand wires to perform well remediation operations, such as lowering tools and transmitting data to the surface. through the rig technology segment, the company sells and rents various types of coiled tubing equipment, and wireline equipment and tools. the company also manufactures and sells coiled tubing pipe through its petroleum services &amp; supplies segment. 5 index to financial statements rig technology the company has a long tradition of pioneering innovations in drilling and well servicing equipment which improve the efficiency, safety, and cost of drilling and well servicing operations. the rig technology segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of top drives, automated pipe handling systems, motion compensation systems, rig controls, bops, handling tools, drawworks, risers, rotary tables, mud pumps, cranes, drilling motors, turret mooring systems and other products for fpsos and other offshore vessels and terminals, and other drilling equipment for both the onshore and offshore markets. rig technology also manufactures entire rig packages, both drilling and workover, in addition to well servicing equipment such as coiled tubing units, pressure pumping equipment, and wireline winches. the rig technology segment sells directly to drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. rig technology rents and sells proprietary drilling rig instrumentation packages and control systems which monitor various processes throughout the drilling operation, under the name md &reg; /totco &reg; ( instrumentation ). demand for its products, several of which are described below, is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. land rig packages . the company designs, manufactures, assembles, upgrades, and supplies equipment sets to a variety of land drilling rigs, including those specifically designed to operate in harsh environments such as the arctic circle and the desert. our key land rig product names include the drake rig, ideal rig and rapid rig &reg; . the company recent rig packages are designed to be safer and fast moving, to utilize ac technology, and to reduce manpower required to operate a rig. top drives . the top drive drilling system ( tds ), originally introduced by the company in 1982, significantly alters the traditional drilling process. the tds rotates the drill stem from its top, rather than by the rotary table, with a large electric motor affixed to rails installed in the derrick that traverses the length of the derrick to the rig floor. therefore, the tds eliminates the use of the conventional rotary table for drilling. components of the tds also are used to connect additional joints of drill pipe to the drill stem during drilling operations, enabling drilling with three joints of drill pipe compared to traditionally drilling with one joint of drill pipe. additionally, the tds facilitates horizontal and extended reach drilling. electric rig motors. the company has helped lead the application of ac motor technology in the oilfield industry. the company buys motors from third parties and builds them in its own facilities and is further developing motor technology, including the introduction of permanent magnet motor technology to the industry. these permanent magnet motors are being used in top drives, cranes, mud pumps, winches, and drawworks. rotary equipment . the alternative to using a tds to rotate the drill stem is to use a rotary table, which rotates the pipe at the floor of the rig. rig technology produces rotary tables as well as kelly bushings and master bushings for most sizes of kellys and makes of rotary tables. in 1998, the company introduced the rotary support table for use on rigs with a tds. the rotary support table is used in concert with the tds to completely eliminate the need for the larger conventional rotary table. pipe handling systems . pipe racking systems are used to handle drill pipe, casing and tubing on a drilling rig. vertical pipe racking systems move drill pipe and casing between the well and a storage ( racking ) area on the rig floor. horizontal racking systems are used to handle tubulars while stored horizontally (for example, on the pipe deck of an offshore rig) and transport tubulars up to the rig floor and into a vertical position for use in the drilling process. vertical pipe racking systems are used predominantly on offshore rigs and are found on almost all floating rigs. mechanical vertical pipe racking systems greatly reduce the manual effort involved in pipe handling. pipe racking systems, introduced by the company in 1985, provide a fully automated mechanism for handling and racking drill pipe during drilling and tripping operations, spinning and torquing drill pipe, and automatic hoisting and racking of disconnected joints of drill pipe. these functions can be integrated via computer controlled sequencing, and operated by a driller in an environmentally secure cabin. an important element of this system is the iron roughneck, which was originally introduced by the company in 1976 and is an automated device that makes pipe connections on the rig floor and requires less direct involvement of rig floor personnel in potentially dangerous operations. the automated roughneck is an automated microprocessor-controlled version of the iron roughneck. horizontal pipe transfer systems were introduced by the company in 1993. they include the pipe deck machine ( pdm ), which is used to manipulate and move tubulars while stored in a horizontal position; the pipe transfer conveyor ( ptc ), which transports sections of pipe to the rig floor; and a pickup laydown system ( pls ), which raises the pipe to a vertical position for transfer to a vertical racking system. these components may be employed separately, or incorporated together to form a complete horizontal racking system, known as the pipe transfer system ( pts ). 6 index to financial statements pipe handling tools . the company pipe handling tools are designed to enhance the safety, efficiency and reliability of pipe handling operations. many of these tools have provided innovative methods of performing the designated task through mechanization of functions previously performed manually. the rig technology segment manufactures various tools used to grip, hold, raise, and lower pipe, and in the making up and breaking out of drill pipe, workstrings, casing and production tubulars including spinning wrenches, manual tongs, torque wrenches and kelly spinners. mud pumps. mud pumps are high pressure pumps located on the rig that force drilling mud down the drill pipe, through the drill bit, and up the space between the drill pipe and the drilled formation (the annulus ) back to the surface. these pumps, which generate pressures of up to 7,500 psi, must therefore be capable of displacing drilling fluids several thousand feet down and back up the well bore. the conventional mud pump design, known as the triplex pump, uses three reciprocating pistons oriented horizontally. the company has introduced the hex pump, which uses six pumping cylinders, versus the three used in the triplex pump. along with other design features, the greater number of cylinders reduces pulsations (or surges) and increases the output available from a given footprint. reduced pulsation is desirable where downhole measurement equipment is being used during the drilling process, as is often the case in directional drilling. hoisting systems . hoisting systems are used to raise or lower the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and to lower casing into the wellbore. the drawworks is the heart of the hoisting system. it is a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line, which is in turn connected to the drill stem at the top of the derrick. the drawworks also plays an important role in keeping the weight on the drill bit at a desired level. this task is particularly challenging on offshore drilling rigs, which are subject to wave motion. to address this, the company has introduced the active heave drilling ( ahd ) drawworks. the ahd drawworks uses computer-controlled motors to compensate for the motion experienced in offshore drilling operations. cranes. the company provides a comprehensive range of crane solutions, with purpose-built products for all segments of the oil and gas industry as well as many other markets. the company encompasses a broad collection of brand names with international recognition, and includes a large staff of engineers specializing in the design of cranes and related equipment. the product range extends from small cargo-handling cranes to the world largest marine cranes. in all, the company provides over twenty crane product lines that include standard model configurations as well as custom-engineered and specialty cranes. motion compensation systems . traditionally, motion compensation equipment is located on top of the drilling rig and serves to stabilize the bit on the bottom of the hole, increasing drilling effectiveness of floating offshore rigs by compensating for wave and wind action. the ahd drawworks, discussed above, was introduced to eliminate weight and improve safety, removing the compensator from the top of the rig and integrating it into the drawworks system. in addition to the ahd drawworks, the company has introduced an active heave compensation ( ahc ) system that goes beyond the capabilities of the ahd drawworks to handle the most severe weather. additionally, the company tensioning systems provide continuous axial tension to the marine riser pipe (larger diameter pipe which connects floating drilling rigs to the well on the ocean floor) and guide lines on floating drilling rigs, tension leg platforms and jack-up drilling rigs. blowout preventers . bops are devices used to seal the space between the drill pipe and the borehole to prevent blowouts (uncontrolled flows of formation fluids and gases to the surface). the rig technology segment manufactures a wide array of bops used in various situations. ram and annular bops are back-up devices that are activated only if other techniques for controlling pressure in the wellbore are inadequate. when closed, these devices prevent normal rig operations. ram bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing rams (thick heavy blocks of steel) against each other across the wellbore. specially designed packers seal around specific sizes of pipe in the wellbore, shear pipe in the wellbore or close off an open hole. annular bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing a rubber packing unit around the drill pipe or kelly or by sealing against itself if nothing is in the hole. the company pressure control while drilling ( pcwd ) &reg; bop, introduced in 1995, allows operators to drill at pressures up to 2,000 psi without interrupting normal operations, and can act as a normal spherical bop at pressures up to 5,000 psi. in 1998, the company introduced the nxt &reg; ram type bop which eliminates door bolts, providing significant weight, rig-time, and space savings. its unique features make subsea operation more efficient through faster ram configuration changes without tripping the bop stack. in 2004, the company introduced the lxt, which features many of the design elements of the nxt &reg; , but is targeted at the land market. in 2005, the company began commercializing technology related to a continuous circulation device. this device enables drilling contractors to make and break drill pipe connections without stopping the circulation of drilling fluids, which helps increase drilling efficiency. the shearmax tm line of low force bop shear rams released in 2010 add substantial tubular shearing capability to the company line of pressure control equipment, including the capability to shear large drill pipe tool joints, previously unheard of in the industry. this innovative shear blade design utilizes patented puncture technology to reduce the shearing pressures 50% or more and in some cases as much as five times lower. the shearmax tm blind shear provides a shear-and-seal design for drill pipe, while the casing and tjc shears address casing up to 16 od and most tool joints up to 2 wall thickness, respectively. 7 index to financial statements derricks and substructures. drilling activities are carried out from a drilling rig. a drilling rig consists of one or two derricks; the substructure that supports the derrick(s); and the rig package, which consists of the various pieces of equipment discussed above. rig technology designs, fabricates and services derricks used in both onshore and offshore applications, and substructures used in onshore applications. the rig technology segment also works with shipyards in the fabrication of substructures for offshore drilling rigs. instrumentation . the company instrumentation business provides drilling rig operators real time measurement and monitoring of critical parameters required to improve rig safety and efficiency. in 1999, the company introduced its rigsense &reg; wellsite information system, which combines leading hardware and software technologies into an integrated drilling rig package. access of drilling data is provided to offsite locations, enabling company personnel to monitor drilling operations from an office environment, through a secure link. systems are both sold and rented, and are comprised of hazardous area sensors placed throughout the rig to measure critical drilling parameters; all networked back to a central command station for review, recording and interpretation. the company offers unique business integration services to directly integrate information into business applications that improves accuracy and assists drilling contractors in managing their drilling business. reports on drilling activities and processes are now provided from the rig site as a part of the drillsuite business solution to allow contractors to streamline administration by eliminating manual entry of data, promotes accurate payroll processing and invoicing, and includes asset tracking and preventive maintenance management through its rigms solution. the real time information provided also allows the company to advance the drilling process using advanced drilling algorithms and electronic controls such as our wildcat auto drilling system for better execution of the well plan, enhanced rates of penetration, reduced program costs, and improved wellbore quality. complementing the company surface solutions is a portfolio of down-hole instrumentation ( dhi ) products for both straight-hole and directional markets. key advancements in this area include the introduction of the company time saving etotco electronic drift recorder, which serves as an electronic equivalent to the traditional mechanical drift tool that the company has offered since 1929. coiled tubing equipment . coiled tubing consists of flexible steel tubing manufactured in a continuous string and spooled on a reel. it can extend several thousand feet in length and is run in and out of the wellbore at a high rate of speed by a hydraulically operated coiled tubing unit. a coiled tubing unit is typically mounted on a truck, semi-trailer or skid (steel frames on which portable equipment is mounted to facilitate handling with cranes for offshore use) and consists of a hydraulically operated tubing reel or drum, an injector head which pushes or pulls the tubing in or out of the wellbore, and various power and control systems. coiled tubing is typically used with sophisticated pressure control equipment which permits the operator to perform workover operations on a live well. the rig technology segment manufactures and sells both coiled tubing units and the ancillary pressure control equipment used in these operations. through its acquisition of rolligon in late 2006, the company enhanced its portfolio by adding additional pressure pumping and coiled tubing equipment products. currently, most coiled tubing units are used in well remediation and completion applications. the company believes that advances in the manufacturing process of coiled tubing, tubing fatigue protection and the capability to manufacture larger diameter and increased wall thickness coiled tubing strings have resulted in increased uses and applications for coiled tubing products. for example, some well operators are now using coiled tubing in drilling applications such as slim hole re-entries of existing wells. the company engineered and manufactured the first coiled tubing units built specifically for coiled tubing drilling in 1996. generally, the rig technology segment supplies customers with the equipment and components necessary to use coiled tubing, which the customers typically purchase separately. the rig technology segment coiled tubing product line consists of coiled tubing units, coiled tubing pressure control equipment, pressure pumping equipment, snubbing units (which are units that force tubulars into a well when pressure is contained within the wellbore), nitrogen pumping equipment and cementing, stimulation, fracturing and blending equipment. wireline equipment . the company wireline products include wireline drum units, which consist of a spool or drum of wireline cable, mounted in a mobile vehicle or skid, which works in conjunction with a source of power (an engine mounted in the vehicle or within a separate power pack skid). the wireline drum unit is used to spool wireline cable into or out of a well, in order to perform surveys inside the well, sample fluids from the bottom of the well, retrieve or replace components from inside the well, or to perform other well remediation or survey operations. the wireline used may be slick line , which is conventional single-strand steel cable used to convey tools in or out of the well, or electric line , which contains an imbedded single-conductor or multi-conductor electrical line which permits communication between the surface and electronic instruments attached to the end of the wireline at the bottom of the well. wireline units are usually used in conjunction with a variety of other pressure control equipment which permit safe access into wells while they are flowing and under pressure at the surface. the company engineers and manufactures a broad range of pressure control equipment for wireline operations, including wireline blowout preventers, strippers, packers, lubricators and grease injection units. additionally, the company makes wireline rigging equipment such as mast trucks. 8 index to financial statements turret mooring systems. the company acquired advanced production and loading plc ( apl ), in december 2010. apl, based in norway, designs and manufactures turret mooring systems and other products for fpsos and other offshore vessels and terminals. a turret mooring system consists of a geostatic part attached to the seabed and a rotating part integrated in the hull of the fpso, which are connected and allow the ship to weathervane (rotate) around the turret. facilities. the company rig technology segment conducts manufacturing operations at major facilities in houston, galena park, sugar land, conroe, cedar park, anderson, fort worth and pampa, texas; duncan, oklahoma; orange, california; edmonton, canada; aberdeen, scotland; kristiansand, stavanger and arendal, norway; etten-leur and groot-ammers, the netherlands; carquefou, france; singapore; lanzhou and shanghai, china; dubai, uae; and ulsan, south korea. for a more detailed listing of significant facilities see item 2. properties . the rig technology segment maintains sales and service offices in most major oilfield markets, either directly or through agents. customers and competition. rig technology sells directly to drilling contractors, other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumping companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. the products of the rig technology segment are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or improved availability and delivery. the segment primary competitors are access oil tools; aker solutions as; american block; bomco; canrig (a division of nabors industries); cavins oil tools; cameron; dencon oil tools; forum oilfield technologies; general electric; hitec drilling products; hong hua; huisman; global energy services; m&amp;i electric; tesco corporation; stewart &amp; stevenson, inc.; huntings, ltd.; vanoil; parveen industries; soilmec; tts sense; omron; bentec; blohm; voss; liebher; seatrax; mcgregor; rolls royce and weatherford international, inc. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting its rig technology segment are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of products, spare parts, and consumables, breadth of product line and price. petroleum services &amp; supplies the company provides a broad range of support equipment, spare parts, consumables and services through the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment. petroleum services &amp; supplies segment sells directly and provides a variety of tubular services, composite tubing, and coiled tubing to oil and gas producers, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, and tubular processors, manufacturers and distributors. these include inspection and reclamation services for drill pipe, casing, production tubing, sucker rods and line pipe at drilling and workover rig locations, at yards owned by its customers, at steel mills and processing facilities that manufacture tubular goods, and at facilities which it owns. the company also provides internal coating of tubular goods at several coating plants worldwide and through licensees in certain locations. additionally, the company designs, manufactures and sells high pressure fiberglass and composite tubulars for use in corrosive applications and coiled tubing for use in well servicing applications and connections for large diameter conductor pipe. the company customers rely on tubular inspection services to avoid failure of tubing, casing, flowlines, pipelines and drill pipe. such tubular failures are expensive and in some cases catastrophic. the company customers rely on internal coatings of tubular goods to prolong the useful lives of tubulars and to increase the volumetric throughput of in-service tubular goods. the company customers sometimes use fiberglass or composite tubulars in lieu of conventional steel tubulars, due to the corrosion-resistant properties of fiberglass and other composite materials. tubular inspection and coating services are used most frequently in operations in high-temperature, deep, corrosive oil and gas environments. in selecting a provider of tubular inspection and tubular coating services, oil and gas operators consider such factors as reputation, experience, technology of products offered, reliability and price. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment also provides products and services that are used in the course of drilling oil and gas wells. the nov downhole business sells and rents bits, drilling motors and specialized downhole tools that are incorporated into the drill stem during drilling operations, and are also used during fishing, well intervention, re-entry, and well completion operations. the wellsite services business provides products and services such as drilling fluids, highly-engineered solids control equipment, waste handling and treatment, completion fluids, power generation equipment, and other ancillary well site equipment and services. wellsite services is also engaged in barium sulfate ( barite ) mining operations in the state of nevada. barite is an inert powder material used as the primary weighting agent in drilling fluids. additionally, efficient separation of drill cuttings enables the re-use of often costly drilling fluids. the pumps &amp; expendables business provides centrifugal, reciprocating, and progressing cavity pumps and pump expendables ( pumps &amp; expendables ) into the global oil and gas and industrial markets. solids control and waste management . the company is engaged in the provision of highly-engineered equipment, products and services which separate and manage drill cuttings produced by the drilling process ( solids control ). drill cuttings are usually contaminated with petroleum or drilling fluids, and must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. 9 index to financial statements fluids services. the company acquired the spirit group of companies in may 2009 ( spirit ) and ambar in january 2010. both are engaged in the provision of drilling fluids, completion fluids and other related services. this division is also engaged in barite mining operations. drilling fluids are designed and used to maintain well bore stability while drilling, control downhole pressure, drill bit lubrication, and as a drill cuttings displacement medium. completion fluids are used to clean the well bore and stimulate production. portable power. the acquisition of welch sales and service, inc. in 2008 placed wellsite services in the power generation and temperature control business. the portable power division provides rental equipment for use in the upstream oil and gas industry, refinery and petrochemical, construction, events, disaster relief and other industries. tubular coating . the company develops, manufactures and applies its proprietary tubular coatings, known as tube-kote &reg; coatings, to new and used tubulars. tubular coatings help prevent corrosion of tubulars by providing a tough plastic shield to isolate steel from corrosive oilfield fluids such as co 2 , h 2 and brine. delaying or preventing corrosion extends the life of existing tubulars, reduces the frequency of well remediation and reduces expensive interruptions in production. in addition, coatings are designed to increase the fluid flow rate through tubulars by decreasing or eliminating paraffin and scale build-up, which can reduce or block oil flow in producing wells. the smooth inner surfaces of coated tubulars often increase the fluid through-put on certain high-rate oil and gas wells by reducing friction and turbulence. the company reputation for supplying quality internal coatings is an important factor in its business, since the failure of coatings can lead to expensive production delays and premature tubular failure. in 2005, the company created a 60%-owned joint venture in china with the huabei petroleum administration bureau, which coats chinese produced drill pipe using the company proprietary coatings. in 2007, the joint venture opened a second coating plant in jiangyin city, china. in addition to the company tk &reg; coatings, it also has complementary corrosion control products and services including tk &reg; liners, tubowrap , and kc-ipc connections. tk liners are fiberglass-reinforced tubes which are inserted into steel line pipe. this safeguards the pipe against corrosion and extends the life of the pipeline. in conjunction with the thru-kote &reg; connection system customers can weld a sleeve for a continuous fiberglass lined pipeline. tubo-wrap is a high performance external coating that protects the pipe during installation and from corrosion once the pipeline is in place. kc-ipc connections use a modified american petroleum institute ( api ) coupling to create a gas-tight seal that prevents corrosion and turbulence in the critical connections of tubulars while protecting the internal plastic coating at the highly loaded contact points. tubular inspection. newly manufactured pipe sometimes contains serious defects that are not detected at the mill. in addition, pipe can be damaged in transit and during handling prior to use at the well site. as a result, exploration and production companies often have new tubulars inspected before they are placed in service to reduce the risk of tubular failures during drilling, completion, or production of oil and gas wells. used tubulars are inspected by the company to detect service-induced flaws after the tubulars are removed from operation. used drill pipe and used tubing inspection programs allow operators to replace defective lengths, thereby prolonging the life of the remaining pipe and saving the customer the cost of unnecessary tubular replacements and expenses related to tubular failures. tubular inspection services employ all major non-destructive inspection techniques, including electromagnetic, ultrasonic, magnetic flux leakage and gamma ray. these inspection services are provided both by mobile units which work at the wellhead as used tubing is removed from a well, and at fixed site tubular inspection locations. the company provides an ultrasonic inspection service for detecting potential fatigue cracks in the end area of used drill pipe, the portion of the pipe that traditionally has been the most difficult to inspect. tubular inspection facilities also offer a wide range of related services, such as api thread inspection, ring and plug gauging, and a complete line of reclamation services necessary to return tubulars to useful service, including tubular cleaning and straightening, hydrostatic testing and re-threading. in addition, the company applies hardbanding material to drill pipe, to enhance its wear characteristics and reduce downhole casing wear as a result of the drilling process. in 2002, the company introduced its proprietary line of hardbanding material, tcs 8000 . the company also cleans, straightens, inspects and coats sucker rods at 11 facilities throughout the western hemisphere. additionally, new sucker rods are inspected before they are placed into service, to avoid premature failure, which can cause the oil well operator to have to pull and replace the sucker rod. machining services. in 2005, the company acquired turner oilfield services and expanded our product offering into thread repair, tool joint rebuilding and sub manufacturing. since then the company has made strategic acquisitions of hendershot and mid-south and has expanded its machining services internally to develop a one-stop-shop concept for its drill pipe customers. thread repair services include rotary shouldered and premium connections. the company is licensed to perform thread repair services for api and proprietary connections. tool joint rebuilding is a unique process to restore worn drill pipe tool joints, drill collars and heavy weight drill pipe to the original specifications to extend the service life of those assets. the company manufactures downhole tools and is api licensed for this process in several locations. in november 2009, the company acquired south seas inspection (s) pte. ltd., ( ssi ) and certain assets of its brazilian affiliate. ssi provides a wide array of oilfield services including rig and derrick construction, derrick inspection and maintenance, drops surveys and load testing at the rig through the use of rope access technicians. this acquisition adds multiple new services and allows the 10 index to financial statements company to grow this business by leveraging existing relationships and infrastructure. these operations are based out of singapore with branch offices in baku, azerbaijan and aktau, kazkhstan as well as a representative office in vietnam. the highly trained workforce is completely mobile and provides these services worldwide. mill systems and sales. the company engineers and fabricates inspection equipment for steel mills, which it sells and rents. the equipment is used for quality control purposes to detect defects in the pipe during the high-speed manufacturing process. each piece of mill inspection equipment is designed to customer specifications and is installed and serviced by the company. drill pipe products. as a result of its april 2008 acquisition of grant prideco, the company manufactures and sells a variety of drill stem products used for the drilling of oil and gas wells. the principal products sold by drill pipe products are: (i) drill pipe, (ii) drill collars and heavyweight drill pipe and (iii) drill stem accessories including tool joints. drill pipe is the principal tool, other than the rig, required for the drilling of an oil or gas well. its primary purpose is to connect the above-surface drilling rig to the drill bit. a drilling rig will typically have an inventory of 10,000 to 30,000 feet of drill pipe depending on the size and service requirements of the rig. joints of drill pipe are connected to each other with a welded-on tool joint to form what is commonly referred to as the drill string or drill stem. when a drilling rig is operating, motors mounted on the rig rotate the drill pipe and drill bit. in addition to connecting the drilling rig to the drill bit, drill pipe provides a mechanism to steer the drill bit and serves as a conduit for drilling fluids and cuttings. drill pipe is a capital good that can be used for the drilling of multiple wells. once a well is completed, the drill pipe may be used again and again to drill other wells until the drill pipe becomes damaged or wears out. in recent years, the depth and complexity of the wells customers drill, as well as the specifications and requirements of the drill pipe they purchase, have substantially increased. a majority of the drill pipe sold is required to meet specifications exceeding minimum api standards. the company offers a broad line of premium drilling products designed for the offshore, international and domestic drilling markets. the company premium drilling products include its proprietary lines of xt &reg; and turbotorque tm connections and large diameter drill pipe that delivers hydraulic performance superior to standard sizes. drill collars are used in the drilling process to place weight on the drill bit for better control and penetration. drill collars are located directly above the drill bit and are manufactured from a solid steel bar to provide necessary weight. heavyweight drill pipe is a thick-walled seamless tubular product that is less rigid than a drill collar. heavyweight drill pipe provides a gradual transition between the heavier drill collar and the lighter drill pipe. the company also provides subs, pup joints (short and odd-sized tubular products) and other drill stem accessories. these products all perform special functions within the drill string as part of the drilling process. nov intelliserv. nov intelliserv is a joint venture between the company and schlumberger, ltd. in which the company holds a 55% interest and maintains operational control. nov intelliserv provides wellbore data transmission services that enable high-speed communication up and down the drill string throughout drilling and completion operations that are undertaken during the construction of oil and gas wells. nov intelliserv core product, the intelliserv &reg; broadband network , was commercialized in february 2006 and incorporates various proprietary mechanical and electrical components into the company premium drilling tubulars to enable data transmission rates that are currently up to 20,000 times faster than mud pulse, the current industry standard. the intelliserv &reg; broadband network also permits virtually unlimited real-time actuation of drilling tools and sensors at the bottom of the drill string, a process that conventionally requires the time consuming return of tools to the surface. nov intelliserv offers its products and services on a rental basis to oil and gas operators. voest-alpine tubulars ( vat ) . vat is a joint venture between the company and the austrian based voestalpine group. the company has a 50.01% investment in the joint venture which is located in kindberg, austria. vat owns a tubular mill with an annual capacity of approximately 380,000 metric tons and is the primary supplier of green tubes for our u.s. based production. in addition to producing green tubes, vat produces seamless tubular products for the octg market and non-octg products used in the automotive, petrochemical, construction, mining, tunneling and transportation industries. fiberglass &amp; composite tubulars. when compared to conventional carbon steel and even corrosion-resistant alloys, resin-impregnated fiberglass and other modern plastic composites often exhibit superior resistance to corrosion. some producers manage the corrosive fluids sometimes found in oil and gas fields by utilizing composite or fiberglass tubing, casing and line pipe in the operations of their fields. in 1997, the company acquired fiber glass systems, a leading provider of high pressure fiberglass tubulars used in oilfield applications, to further serve the tubular corrosion prevention needs of its customers. fiber glass systems has manufactured fiberglass pipe since 1968 under the name star &reg; , and was the first manufacturer of high-pressure fiberglass pipe to be licensed by the api in 1992. through further acquisitions and investments in technologies, the company has extended its fiberglass and composite tubing offering into industrial and marine applications, in addition to its oilfield market. 11 index to financial statements in 2011, the company acquired ameron international corporation ( ameron ) which allowed it to expand its fiberglass &amp; composite tubulars business. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding acquisitions made by the company in 2011. ameron fiberglass-composite pipe business, which is now part of the company fiber glass systems business, develops, manufactures and markets filament-wound and molded fiberglass pipe and fittings. these products are used by a wide range of process industries, including industrial, petroleum, chemical processing and petrochemical industries, and for service station piping systems, but predominantly aboard marine vessels, fpsos and offshore oil platforms, and are marketed as an alternative to metallic piping systems which ultimately fail under corrosive operating conditions. coiled tubing. coiled tubing provides a number of significant functional advantages over the principal alternatives of conventional drill pipe and workover pipe. coiled tubing allows faster tripping, since the coiled tubing can be reeled quickly on and off a drum and in and out of a wellbore. in addition, the small size of the coiled tubing unit compared to an average workover rig or drilling rig reduces preparation time at the well site. coiled tubing permits a variety of workover and other operations to be performed without having to pull the existing production tubing from the well and allows ease of operation in horizontal or highly deviated wells. thus, operations using coiled tubing can be performed much more quickly and, in many instances, at a significantly lower cost. finally, use of coiled tubing generally allows continuous production of the well, eliminating the need to temporarily stop the flow of hydrocarbons. as a result, the economics of a workover are improved because the well can continue to produce hydrocarbons and thus produce revenues while the well treatments are occurring. continuous production also reduces the risk of formation damage which can occur when the flow of fluids is stopped or isolated. under normal operating conditions, the coiled tubing string must be replaced every three to four months. the company designs, manufactures, and sells coiled tubing under the quality tubing brand name at its mill in houston, texas. nov downhole. the nov downhole business unit combines a wide array of drilling and intervention tool product lines with the drill bit, coring services, borehole enlargement and drilling dynamics/drilling optimization service lines previously consolidated within the reedhycalog business unit of grant prideco. the broad spectrum of bottom hole assembly ( bha ) components offered by nov downhole is unique within the industry and is the result of the company strategic consolidation of several key acquisitions, including: nql energy services, inc., a leading manufacturer and provider of downhole drilling tools; gammaloy holdings, l.p., a manufacturer and provider of non-magnetic drill collars and other related products; and the reedhycalog, corion, and andergauge business units of grant prideco, a global leader in the design, manufacture and provision of drill bits, variable gauge stabilizers, hydraulically and mechanically actuated under-reamers, specialty coring services and downhole vibration mitigation services. nov downhole manufactures fixed cutter and roller cone drill bits and services its customer base through a technical sales and marketing network in virtually every significant oil and gas producing region of the world. it provides fixed-cutter bit technology under various brand names including trex &reg; , raptor , helios , systemmatched and rotary steerable. one of its most significant fixed cutter drill bit innovations is the trex &reg; , raptor , helios , and duraforce family of cutter technologies which significantly increase abrasion resistance (wear life) and thermal abrasion resistance without sacrificing impact resistance (toughness). this technology provides a diamond surface that maintains a sharp, low-wear cutting edge that produces drilling results that exceed conventional standards for polycrystalline diamond ( pdc ) bit performance. the company licenses its manufacturing process to most other providers of pdc bits. the company produces roller-cone bits for a wide variety of oil and gas drilling applications. roller-cone bits consist of three rotating cones that have cutting teeth, which penetrate the formation through a crushing action as the cones rotate in conjunction with the rotation of the drill pipe. this cutting mechanism, while less efficient than fixed-cutter bits, is more versatile in harder formations, or where the geology is changing. we manufacture roller-cone bits with milled teeth and with tungsten carbide insert teeth, which have a longer life in harder formations. we also manufacture a unique patented line of bits using a powder-metal forging technology sold under the brand tuffcutter . we market our roller-cone products and technology globally under various brand names including rockforce , titan and tuffcutter . nov downhole designs, manufacturers and services a wide array of downhole motors used in straight hole, directional, slim hole, and coiled tubing drilling applications. these motors are sold or leased under the nov downhole brand name. the company also maintains a wide variety of motor power sections, including its proprietary powerplus and hemidril rotors and stators which it incorporates into its own motors as well as sells to third parties. downhole drilling motors utilize hydraulic horsepower from the drilling fluid pumped down the drill stem to develop torque at the bit. motors are capable of achieving higher rotary velocities than can generally be achieved using conventional surface rotary equipment. motors are often used in conjunction with high speed pdc bits to improve rates of penetration. 12 index to financial statements nov downhole also manufactures and sells drilling jars and fishing tools. drilling jars are placed in the drill string, where they can be used to generate a sudden, jarring motion to free the drill string should it become stuck in the wellbore during the drilling process. this jarring motion is generated using hydraulic and/or mechanical force provided at the surface. in the event that a portion of the drill string becomes stuck and cannot be jarred loose, fishing tools are run into the wellbore on the end of the drill string to retrieve the portion that is stuck. through its coring services business line, nov downhole offers coring solutions that enable the extraction of actual rock samples from a drilled well bore and allow geologists to examine the formations at the surface. one of the coring services utilized is the company unique corion express &reg; system which allows the customer to drill and core a well without tripping pipe. corion express &reg; utilizes wireline retrievable drilling and coring elements which allow the system to transform from a drilling assembly to a coring assembly and also to wireline retrieve the geological core. this capability enables customers to save significant time and expense during the drilling and coring process. nov downhole offers a wide variety of industry leading technologies to enable customers to enlarge the diameter of a drilled hole below a restriction (typically a casing string) via its borehole enlargement business line. borehole enlargement services are typically utilized in deep water drilling where customers wish to maximize the size of each successive casing string in order to preserve a relatively large completion hole size through which to produce hydrocarbons from the reservoir. borehole enlargement is also employed where customers wish to reduce the fluid velocity and pressure within the well-bore annulus to reduce the risk of formation erosion or accidental fracture. borehole enlargement provides bi-centered drill bits, expandable reamers (marketed under the anderreamer brand name) and associated equipment along with well-site service technicians who deliver 24 hour support during hole enlargement operations. nov downhole offers drilling optimization services via its advanced drilling solutions ( ads ) business line. ads services incorporate various downhole vibration measurement and mitigation tools along with dedicated, highly trained personnel who interpret such data and provide drilling parameter guidance intended to improve drilling efficiency and reduce drilling risk. pumps &amp; expendables . the company pumps &amp; expendables business designs, manufactures, and sells pumps that are used in oil and gas drilling operations, well service operations, production applications, as well as industrial applications. these pumps include reciprocating positive displacement and centrifugal pumps. high pressure mud pumps are sold within the rig technology segment. these pumps are sold as individual units and unitized packages with drivers, controls and piping. the company also manufactures fluid end expendables (liners, valves, pistons, and plungers), fluid end modules and a complete line of dies and inserts for pipe handling. the company offers popular industry brand names like wheatley, gaso, and omega reciprocating pumps, acquired in 2000; halco centrifugal pumps, acquired in 2002; petroleum expendable products ( pep ), acquired in 1997; and phoenix energy products, acquired in 1998. the company also manufactures a line of commodity and high end valves, chokes, and flow line equipment used in both production and drilling applications. additionally these products are used in the fabrication of choke and kill standpipe, cement, and production manifolds. the company manufactures its pump products in houston, odessa and marble falls, texas; tulsa and mcalester, oklahoma; scott, louisiana; newcastle, england and buenos aires, argentina. xl systems. the company xl systems product line offers the customer an integrated package of large-bore tubular products and services for offshore wells. this product line includes the company proprietary line of wedge thread marine connections on large-bore tubulars and related engineering and design services. the company provides this product line for drive pipe, jet strings and conductor casing. the company also offers weld-on connections and service personnel in connection with the installation of these products. in early 2007, the company completed development of its new high-strength viper weld-on connector that it believes will permit the company to penetrate traditional markets that do not require the enhanced performance of its proprietary wedge-thread design. customers and competition. customers for the petroleum services &amp; supplies tubular services include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield equipment and product distributors and manufacturers, oilfield service companies, steel mills, and other industrial companies. the company competitors include, among others, edo corporation; shawcor ltd.; schlumberger, ltd.; frank international, inc.; baker hughes incorporated; halliburton company; weatherford international ltd.; patterson tubular services; vallourec &amp; mannesmann; and precision tube (a division of tenaris). in addition, the company competes with a number of smaller regional competitors in tubular inspection. certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the company operates have adopted policies or regulations that may give local nationals in these countries certain competitive advantages. within the company corrosion control products, certain substitutes such as non-metallic tubulars, inhibitors, corrosion resistant alloys, cathodic protection systems, and non-metallic liner systems also compete with the company products. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting this business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of products, spare parts, and consumables, breadth of product line and price. 13 index to financial statements the primary customers for drilling services offered by the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil companies. competitors in drilling services include schlumberger, ltd. ( swaco ); baker hughes incorporated; halliburton company; derrick manufacturing corp.; fluid systems; oil tools pte. ltd; peak energy services, ltd.; varel; united diamond; roper; robbins &amp; myers; southwest oilfield products; and a number of regional competitors. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment sells drilling services into highly competitive markets. management believes that on-site service is becoming an increasingly important competitive element in this market, and that the principal competitive factors affecting the business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, product availability and technology, breadth of product line and price. distribution &amp; transmission prior to the company acquisition of ameron in october 2011, the company distribution &amp; transmission segment was called distribution services with one business unit. distribution services was expanded as a result of certain business operations of the ameron acquisition adding an additional business unit to the segment called transmission and changing the name of the segment to distribution &amp; transmission. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding acquisitions as well as note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the company segments. distribution services. the distribution services business unit is a market leader in the provision of supply chain management services to drilling contractors and exploration and production companies around the world. through its network of over 200 distribution service center locations worldwide, this business unit stocks and sells a large line of oilfield products including consumable maintenance, repair and operating supplies, valves, fittings, flanges and spare parts that are needed throughout the drilling, completion and production process. the supplies and equipment stocked by our distribution service centers are customized to meet a wide variety of customer demands. the distribution services business unit also provides unique one-stop-shop value propositions in the exploration and production market in key areas of artificial lift, measurement and controls, valving and actuation, and flow optimization. through focused effort, the business unit has built expertise in providing applications engineering, systems and parts integration, optimization solutions, and after-sales service and support in the aforementioned areas. distribution services is strengthening its offering by adding new artificial lift technologies, as well as measurement and controls competencies. distribution services supply chain solutions for customers include outsourcing the functions of procurement, inventory and warehouse management, logistics, business process, and performance metrics reporting. this solution allows the business unit to leverage the flexible infrastructure of its sap erp system to streamline the acquisition process from requisition to procurement to payment, by digitally managing approval routing and workflow, and by providing robust reporting functionality. nov rigstore is a cutting-edge industry offering by distribution services providing the installation, staffing and management of supply stores on offshore drilling rigs. with the nov rigstore business model, distribution services will install its own erp system onboard in order to access and leverage distribution services global inventory, hundreds of support locations, and thousands of vendors across multiple product lines. this business model relieves the average offshore drilling rig balance sheet by providing improved accounting of these expense items, lower capital costs, extended payment on part of the driller until the item is actually issued from the onboard supply store, and removed risk of ownership from the customer. whether it is a smaller, new drilling contractor or larger, established drilling company the benefits of effective supply chain management and reduced total cost of ownership are substantial. approximately two-thirds of distribution services segment sales in 2011 were in the united states and canada. the remainder comes from key international markets in latin america, the north sea, middle east, africa and the far east. the distribution services business unit has now expanded into oilfields in over 20 countries. approximately 30% of distribution services revenue is from the resale of goods manufactured by other segments within the company and the balance is from the sale of goods manufactured by third parties. distribution services works to strategically increase revenue and enhance alliances with customers by continuous expansion of product and service solutions and creation of differentiating value propositions. additionally the business unit leverages its extensive purchasing power to reduce the cost of the goods. distribution services is strategically expanding its sourcing network into low cost countries globally. transmission. the transmission business unit supplies products and services used in the construction of water pipelines, lining and wind towers, progressing cavity pumps, grinders, filters, screens, and a variety of artificial lift equipment. the business unit manufactures concrete cylinder pipe, prestressed concrete cylinder pipe, steel pipe and reinforced concrete pipe for water transmission, storm and industrial waste water and sewage collection. products are marketed directly using the company own personnel, typically through competitive bidding. the company competes with several other manufacturers and also with alternative products such as ductile iron, plastic, and clay pipe; but ordinarily these other materials do not offer the full diameter range produced 14 index to financial statements by the company. this business unit also includes the manufacturing of polyvinyl chloride and polyethylene sheet lining for the protection of concrete pipe and cast-in-place concrete structures from the corrosive effects of sewer gases, acids and industrial chemicals. additionally, the business unit manufactures large-diameter towers for the u.s. wind-energy market. wind towers are sold to wind turbine manufacturers. competition is based on price, quality, delivery schedule and service. within the transmission business unit the infrastructure products business supplies ready-mix concrete, crushed and sized basaltic aggregates, dune sand and concrete pipe, primarily to the construction industry in hawaii, and also manufactures and markets concrete and steel poles for highway, street and outdoor area lighting and for traffic signals nationwide in the u.s. ample raw materials for the aggregates and concrete products are typically available locally in hawaii, and the business has exclusive rights to quarries containing many years reserves. within its market there are competitors for each of the business unit products. however no single competitor offers the full range of products sold by the company in hawaii. sales of poles are nationwide, but with a stronger concentration in the western and southeastern u.s. marketing of poles is handled by the business own sales force and by outside sales agents. competition for poles is mainly based on price and quality, but with some consideration for service and delivery. within the transmission business unit the mono business serves its customers in its various industrial markets by engineering systems solutions, and manufacturing key products including progressing cavity pumps, grinders, screens, filters, well-head drives, hydraulic pumping units, plunger lift systems and production automation systems. this business is highly diversified through its presence in oil and gas, and industrial markets which include waste water treatment, mining, chemical processing, paper and pulp, agriculture, food and beverage among others. the mono business supports its customers through direct sales, in partnership with over 700 channels to market and through national oilwell varco own elaborate network of supply stores. customers and competition. the primary customers for distribution services include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil companies. customers for transmission include local, state and federal agencies, developers and general contractors. competitors for distribution services include wilson supply (a division of schlumberger, ltd.); ce franklin; mcjunkin red man; edgen murry ii, lp; ferguson enterprises, inc. (a subsidiary of wolseley, plc); wesco international inc.; ks energy limited; apex distribution, inc.; and a number of large regional or product specific competitors. competitors for transmission include northwestern pipe company and a number of regional competitors for water pipelines. vestas, katana summit, and trinity are competitors for wind towers. valmont, skycast and stresscrete are competitors for pole products. 2011 acquisitions and other investments in 2011, the company made the following acquisitions: acquisition form operating segment date of transaction christensen roder productos e servicos de petroleo ltda. stock petroleum services &amp; supplies january 2011 capital valves limited stock distribution &amp; transmission february 2011 merpro group limited stock petroleum services &amp; supplies april 2011 conner steel products holding company stock rig technology; petroleum services &amp; supplies may 2011 barracuda ventures pte ltd stock rig technology july 2011 khalil al sayegh general maintenance company asset petroleum services &amp; supplies july 2011 ameron international corporation stock distribution &amp; transmission; petroleum services &amp; supplies october 2011 scomi oiltools, inc. asset petroleum services &amp; supplies november 2011 scomi oiltools de mexico s. de r.l. de c.v. asset petroleum services &amp; supplies november 2011 xl hardbanding &amp; fabrication, inc. asset petroleum services &amp; supplies november 2011 the company paid an aggregate purchase price of $1,038 million, net of cash acquired for acquisitions in 2011. seasonal nature of the company business historically, the level of some of the company segments have followed seasonal trends to some degree. in general the rig technology segment has not experienced significant seasonal fluctuation although orders for new equipment and aftermarket spare parts may be modestly affected by holiday schedules. there can be no guarantee that seasonal effects will not influence future sales in this segment. in canada, the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment has typically realized high first quarter activity levels, as operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling and production areas. in past years, certain canadian businesses within petroleum services &amp; supplies and distribution &amp; transmission have declined during the second quarter due to warming weather conditions which resulted in thawing, softer ground, difficulty accessing drill sites, and road bans that curtailed drilling activity ( canadian breakup ). however, these segments have typically rebounded in the third and fourth quarter. petroleum services &amp; supplies activity in both the u.s. and canada sometimes increases during the third quarter and then peaks in the fourth quarter as operators spend the remaining drilling and/or production capital budgets for that year. petroleum services &amp; supplies revenues in the 15 index to financial statements rocky mountain region sometimes decline in the late fourth quarter or early first quarter due to harsh winter weather. the segment fiberglass and composite tubulars business in china has typically declined in the first quarter due to the impact of weather on manufacturing and installation operations, and due to business slowdowns associated with the chinese new year. the company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue. however, there can be no guarantee that spending by the company customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past or that spending by other customers will remain the same as in prior years. marketing and distribution network substantially all of our rig technology capital equipment and spare parts sales, and a large portion of our smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through our direct sales force and distribution service centers. sales to foreign oil companies are often made with or through agent or representative arrangements. products within petroleum service &amp; supplies are rented and sold worldwide through our own sales force and through commissioned representatives. distribution &amp; transmission sales are made directly through our network of distribution service centers. the rig technology segment customers include drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumpers, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. rig technology purchases can represent significant capital expenditures, and are often sold as part of a rig fabrication or major rig refurbishment package. sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the company bids jointly with other related product and services providers, such as rig fabrication yards and rig design firms. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment customers for tubular services include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, oilfield equipment and product distributors and manufacturers, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield service companies, pressure pumpers, pipeline operators, pipe mills, manufacturers and processors, and other industrial companies. certain tubular inspection and tubular coating products and services often are incorporated as a part of a tubular package sold by tubular supply stores to end users. the company primarily has direct operations in the international marketplace, but operates through agents in certain markets. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment customers for drilling services are predominantly major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, providers of drilling fluids, and other oilfield service companies. this segment operates sales and distribution facilities at strategic locations worldwide to service areas with high drilling activity. strategically located service and engineering facilities provide specialty repair and maintenance services to customers. sales of capital equipment are sometimes made through rig fabricators, and often are bid as part of a rig fabrication package or rig refurbishment package. sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the company bids jointly with other related service providers. the distribution &amp; transmission segment distribution services sales are made through our network of distribution service centers. customers for our products and services include drilling and other service contractors, exploration and production companies, supply companies and nationally owned or controlled drilling and production companies. the distribution &amp; transmission segment customers for transmission products and services primarily include local, state and federal agencies, developers and general contractors. the company foreign operations, which include significant operations in canada, europe, the far east, the middle east, africa and latin america, are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including foreign currency exchange risks and uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the company operates have adopted policies (or are subject to governmental policies) giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of such policies, the company relies on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationship between the company and such government-owned petroleum companies. although the company has not experienced any material problems in foreign countries arising from nationalistic policies, political instability, economic instability or currency restrictions, there can be no assurance that such a problem will not arise in the future. as discussed in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , the venezuelan government devalued its currency in 2010. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding geographic revenue information. 16 index to financial statements research and new product development and intellectual property the company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights. as of december 31, 2011, the company held a substantial number of united states patents and had several patent applications pending. expiration dates of such patents range from 2012 to 2030. as of this date, the company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to inventions covered by the united states patents. additionally, the company maintains a substantial number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets. although the company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. the company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenues from new products. engineering and manufacturing the manufacturing processes for the company products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components and testing. most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel, and the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. primary manufacturing facilities for the rig technology segment are located in houston, galena park, sugar land, conroe, cedar park, anderson, san angelo, fort worth and pampa, texas; duncan, oklahoma; orange, california; edmonton, canada; aberdeen, scotland; kristiansand, stavanger and arendal, norway; etten-leur and groot-ammers, the netherlands; carquefou, france; singapore; lanzhou and shanghai, china; dubai, uae; and ulsan, south korea. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment manufactures or assembles the equipment and products which it rents and sells to customers, and which it uses in providing services. downhole tools are manufactured at facilities in houston, texas; manchester, england; dubai, uae; maca&eacute;, brazil and singapore. drill bits are manufactured at facilities in conroe, texas; stonehouse, u.k; and jurong, singapore. drill stem technology development and drill pipe are manufactured at facilities in navasota, texas; veracruz, mexico; jurong, singapore; and baimi town, jiangyan and jiangsu, china. solids control equipment and screens are manufactured at facilities in houston and conroe, texas; new iberia, louisiana; aberdeen, scotland; trinidad; shah alum and puncak alam, malaysia; and macae, brazil. pumps are manufactured at facilities in houston, odessa and marble falls, texas; mcalester and tulsa, oklahoma; manchester and newcastle, england; melbourne, australia; and buenos aires, argentina. nov intelliserv manufactures and assembles equipment in provo, utah. the company manufactures tubular inspection equipment and tools at its houston, texas facility for resale, and renovates and repairs equipment at its manufacturing facilities in houston, texas; celle, germany; singapore; and aberdeen, scotland. fiberglass and composite tubulars and fittings are manufactured at facilities in san antonio, burkburnett and mineral wells, texas; little rock, arkansas; tulsa, oklahoma; wichita, kansas; geldermalsen, the netherlands; betim, brazil; johor, malaysia; singapore and harbin and suzhou, china, while tubular coatings are manufactured in its houston, texas facility, or through restricted sale agreements with third party manufacturers. certain of the company manufacturing facilities and certain of the company products have various certifications, including, iso 9001, api, apex and asme. raw materials the company believes that materials and components used in its servicing and manufacturing operations and purchased for sales are generally available from multiple sources. the prices paid by the company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. in 2006 and 2007, the price for mild steel and standard grades stabilized while specialty alloy prices continued to rise driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. however, toward the end of 2007, the company began to see price escalations in all grades of steel that continued into 2008. during 2008, steel prices stabilized and the company began to experience some declines in steel prices late in 2008 and throughout 2009. the company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to and adjusting prices on the products it sells. furthermore, the company continued to expand its supply base starting in 2006 throughout the world to address its customers needs. in 2011, the company witnessed moderate increases in steel pricing somewhat mitigated by improved sourcing and supply chain practices. the company anticipates flat to slight increases in steel pricing in 2012. higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. 17 index to financial statements backlog the company monitors its backlog of orders within its rig technology segment to guide its planning. backlog includes orders greater than $250,000 for most items and orders for wireline units in excess of $75,000, and which require more than three months to manufacture and deliver. backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. most require reimbursement to the company for costs incurred in such an event. there can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the company will earn a profit on backlog work. backlog for equipment at december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $10.2 billion, $5.0 billion and $6.4 billion, respectively. employees at december 31, 2011, the company had a total of 49,975 employees, of which 7,792 were temporary employees. approximately 900 employees in the u.s are subject to collective bargaining agreements. additionally, certain of the company employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. the company believes its relationship with its employees is good. 18 index to financial statements item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile . the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of production by non-opec countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas; level of production from known reserves; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity; national government political requirements; development of alternate energy sources; and environmental regulations. if there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the company will decline. volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products. oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1972. in general, oil prices approximated $18-$22 per barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have generally ranged between $25-$100 per barrel since 2000. in 2008, oil prices were extremely volatile oil prices rose to $147 per barrel in july 2008 only to fall into the $35-$45 per barrel range in december 2008. in 2009, oil prices continued to be volatile, rising to the $70 per barrel range during the year. in 2010 oil prices continued rising to finish the year well above $80 per barrel. domestic spot gas prices generally ranged between $1.80-$2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999 then experienced spikes into the $10 range in 2001 and 2003. prices generally ranged between $4.50-$12.00 per mmbtu during 2005-2008. during 2009 through 2011, spot gas prices generally stabilized, dropping into the $3.00-$4.50 per mmbtu range, but declined below $3.00 late in 2011. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could reduce demand for our products. 19 index to financial statements worldwide financial and credit crisis could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. events in 2008 and 2009 constrained credit markets and sparked a serious global banking crisis. the slowdown in worldwide economic activity caused by the global recession reduced demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, many of our customers access the credit markets to finance their oil and natural gas drilling activity. if the recent crisis and recession reduce the availability of credit to our customers, they may reduce their drilling and production expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for our products and services. any such reduction in spending by our customers could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment. as of december 31, 2011, we had a backlog of approximately $10.2 billion of drilling equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by our rig technology segment. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties: our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this drilling equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; and our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control. the company existing contracts for rig equipment generally carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects. however, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and earnings: price changes; new product and technology introductions; and improvements in availability and delivery. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. competition in our industry could lead to lower revenues and earnings. we have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy. we have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through acquisitions and investment in internal growth. we anticipate that we will continue to pursue an aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the company or operate any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. 20 index to financial statements our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue. we have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. we cannot assure that we will realize earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors expectations. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future: fluctuations in the oil and gas industry; competition; the ability to service the debt obligations of the company; the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices; the ability to manage and control operating costs of the company; fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the united states and abroad; and the ability to protect our intellectual property rights. there are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability, currency restrictions, and trade and economic sanctions. approximately 57% of our revenues in 2011 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in canada, europe, the middle east, africa, southeast asia, latin america and other international markets. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies. our operations outside the united states could also expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. the u.s. department of justice ( doj ), the u.s. securities and exchange commission and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the foreign corrupt practices act and other federal statutes. under trading sanctions laws, the doj may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. if any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. we have received federal grand jury subpoenas and subsequent inquiries from governmental agencies requesting records related to our compliance with export trade laws and regulations. we have cooperated fully with agents from the department of justice, the bureau of industry and security, the office of foreign assets control, and u.s. immigration and customs enforcement in responding to the inquiries. we have also cooperated with an informal inquiry from the securities and exchange commission in connection with the inquiries previously made by the aforementioned federal agencies. we have conducted our own internal review of this matter. at the conclusion of our internal review in the fourth quarter of 2009, we identified possible areas of concern and discussed these areas of concern with the relevant agencies. we are currently negotiating a potential resolution with the agencies involved related to these matters. in 2011, the company acquired ameron. on or about november 21, 2008, the united states department of treasury, office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) sent a requirement to furnish information to ameron. ameron retained counsel and conducted an internal investigation. in 2009, ameron, through its counsel, responded to ofac. on or about january 21, 2011, ofac issued an administrative subpoena to ameron. ofac and ameron have entered into tolling agreements. all of the conduct under review occurred before acquisition of ameron by the company. we currently anticipate that any administrative fine or penalty agreed to as part of a resolution would be within established accruals, and would not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. to the extent a resolution is not negotiated, we cannot predict the timing or effect that any resulting government actions may have on our financial position or results of operations. 21 index to financial statements the results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including, but not limited to, the canadian dollar, the euro, the british pound sterling, the norwegian krone and the south korean won. approximately 57% of our 2011 revenue was derived from sales outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. thus, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income. because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net exposure to currency exchange fluctuations. we had forward contracts with a notional amount of $3,328 million (with a fair value of $70 million) as of december 31, 2011 to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are also subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results. an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings. the company has approximately $6.2 billion of goodwill and $0.6 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2011. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant reduction in worldwide well remediation activity; a significant reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity; resulting in an increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. see additional discussion on goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets in critical accounting estimates of item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or environmental damage and suspension of operations. 22 index to financial statements our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. the u.s. congress is currently working on legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the united states, which includes establishing cap-and-trade programs. in addition to the pending climate legislation, the u.s. environmental protection agency has proposed regulations that would require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities, and may issue final rules this year. these changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. we had revenues of 12% of total revenue from one of our customers for the year ended december 31, 2011. the loss of this customer (samsung heavy industries) or a significant reduction in its purchases could adversely affect our future revenues and earnings. the recent moratorium on deepwater drilling in the u.s. gulf of mexico and its consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business. a moratorium on deepwater drilling in the u.s. gulf of mexico was enacted during the second quarter of 2010 following the macondo well blowout and oil spill. even though such moratorium has been lifted, any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas drilling and production activity as a result of such moratorium or permitting issues in this area could result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger systems and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 23 index to financial statements glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds ( pdcs ). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. 24 index to financial statements drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. fpso a floating production, storage and offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. hydraulic fracturing the process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1. in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four-or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four-or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). 25 index to financial statements kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. compare break out. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment equipment used in: 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. 26 index to financial statements rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shaker see shale shaker shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. 27 index to financial statements tiebacks (subsea) a series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. wellhead the termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , the venezuelan government devalued its currency in 2010. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding geographic revenue information. 16 index to financial statements research and new product development and intellectual property the company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights. as of december 31, 2011, the company held a substantial number of united states patents and had several patent applications pending. expiration dates of such patents range from 2012 to 2030. as of this date, the company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to inventions covered by the united states patents. additionally, the company maintains a substantial number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets. although the company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. the company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenues from new products. engineering and manufacturing the manufacturing processes for the company products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components and testing. most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel, and the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. primary manufacturing facilities for the rig technology segment are located in houston, galena park, sugar land, conroe, cedar park, anderson, san angelo, fort worth and pampa, texas; duncan, oklahoma; orange, california; edmonton, canada; aberdeen, scotland; kristiansand, stavanger and arendal, norway; etten-leur and groot-ammers, the netherlands; carquefou, france; singapore; lanzhou and shanghai, china; dubai, uae; and ulsan, south korea. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment manufactures or assembles the equipment and products which it rents and sells to customers, and which it uses in providing services. downhole tools are manufactured at facilities in houston, texas; manchester, england; dubai, uae; maca&eacute;, brazil and singapore. drill bits are manufactured at facilities in conroe, texas; stonehouse, u.k; and jurong, singapore. drill stem technology development and drill pipe are manufactured at facilities in navasota, texas; veracruz, mexico; jurong, singapore; and baimi town, jiangyan and jiangsu, china. solids control equipment and screens are manufactured at facilities in houston and conroe, texas; new iberia, louisiana; aberdeen, scotland; trinidad; shah alum and puncak alam, malaysia; and macae, brazil. pumps are manufactured at facilities in houston, odessa and marble falls, texas; mcalester and tulsa, oklahoma; manchester and newcastle, england; melbourne, australia; and buenos aires, argentina. nov intelliserv manufactures and assembles equipment in provo, utah. the company manufactures tubular inspection equipment and tools at its houston, texas facility for resale, and renovates and repairs equipment at its manufacturing facilities in houston, texas; celle, germany; singapore; and aberdeen, scotland. fiberglass and composite tubulars and fittings are manufactured at facilities in san antonio, burkburnett and mineral wells, texas; little rock, arkansas; tulsa, oklahoma; wichita, kansas; geldermalsen, the netherlands; betim, brazil; johor, malaysia; singapore and harbin and suzhou, china, while tubular coatings are manufactured in its houston, texas facility, or through restricted sale agreements with third party manufacturers. certain of the company manufacturing facilities and certain of the company products have various certifications, including, iso 9001, api, apex and asme. raw materials the company believes that materials and components used in its servicing and manufacturing operations and purchased for sales are generally available from multiple sources. the prices paid by the company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. in 2006 and 2007, the price for mild steel and standard grades stabilized while specialty alloy prices continued to rise driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. however, toward the end of 2007, the company began to see price escalations in all grades of steel that continued into 2008. during 2008, steel prices stabilized and the company began to experience some declines in steel prices late in 2008 and throughout 2009. the company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to and adjusting prices on the products it sells. furthermore, the company continued to expand its supply base starting in 2006 throughout the world to address its customers needs. in 2011, the company witnessed moderate increases in steel pricing somewhat mitigated by improved sourcing and supply chain practices. the company anticipates flat to slight increases in steel pricing in 2012. higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. 17 index to financial statements backlog the company monitors its backlog of orders within its rig technology segment to guide its planning. backlog includes orders greater than $250,000 for most items and orders for wireline units in excess of $75,000, and which require more than three months to manufacture and deliver. backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. most require reimbursement to the company for costs incurred in such an event. there can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the company will earn a profit on backlog work. backlog for equipment at december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $10.2 billion, $5.0 billion and $6.4 billion, respectively. employees at december 31, 2011, the company had a total of 49,975 employees, of which 7,792 were temporary employees. approximately 900 employees in the u.s are subject to collective bargaining agreements. additionally, certain of the company employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. the company believes its relationship with its employees is good. 18 index to financial statements item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile . the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of production by non-opec countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas; level of production from known reserves; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity; national government political requirements; development of alternate energy sources; and environmental regulations. if there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the company will decline. volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products. oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1972. in general, oil prices approximated $18-$22 per barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have generally ranged between $25-$100 per barrel since 2000. in 2008, oil prices were extremely volatile oil prices rose to $147 per barrel in july 2008 only to fall into the $35-$45 per barrel range in december 2008. in 2009, oil prices continued to be volatile, rising to the $70 per barrel range during the year. in 2010 oil prices continued rising to finish the year well above $80 per barrel. domestic spot gas prices generally ranged between $1.80-$2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999 then experienced spikes into the $10 range in 2001 and 2003. prices generally ranged between $4.50-$12.00 per mmbtu during 2005-2008. during 2009 through 2011, spot gas prices generally stabilized, dropping into the $3.00-$4.50 per mmbtu range, but declined below $3.00 late in 2011. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could reduce demand for our products. 19 index to financial statements worldwide financial and credit crisis could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. events in 2008 and 2009 constrained credit markets and sparked a serious global banking crisis. the slowdown in worldwide economic activity caused by the global recession reduced demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, many of our customers access the credit markets to finance their oil and natural gas drilling activity. if the recent crisis and recession reduce the availability of credit to our customers, they may reduce their drilling and production expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for our products and services. any such reduction in spending by our customers could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment. as of december 31, 2011, we had a backlog of approximately $10.2 billion of drilling equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by our rig technology segment. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties: our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this drilling equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; and our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control. the company existing contracts for rig equipment generally carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects. however, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and earnings: price changes; new product and technology introductions; and improvements in availability and delivery. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. competition in our industry could lead to lower revenues and earnings. we have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy. we have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through acquisitions and investment in internal growth. we anticipate that we will continue to pursue an aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the company or operate any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. 20 index to financial statements our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue. we have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. we cannot assure that we will realize earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors expectations. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future: fluctuations in the oil and gas industry; competition; the ability to service the debt obligations of the company; the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices; the ability to manage and control operating costs of the company; fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the united states and abroad; and the ability to protect our intellectual property rights. there are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability, currency restrictions, and trade and economic sanctions. approximately 57% of our revenues in 2011 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in canada, europe, the middle east, africa, southeast asia, latin america and other international markets. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies. our operations outside the united states could also expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. the u.s. department of justice ( doj ), the u.s. securities and exchange commission and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the foreign corrupt practices act and other federal statutes. under trading sanctions laws, the doj may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. if any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. we have received federal grand jury subpoenas and subsequent inquiries from governmental agencies requesting records related to our compliance with export trade laws and regulations. we have cooperated fully with agents from the department of justice, the bureau of industry and security, the office of foreign assets control, and u.s. immigration and customs enforcement in responding to the inquiries. we have also cooperated with an informal inquiry from the securities and exchange commission in connection with the inquiries previously made by the aforementioned federal agencies. we have conducted our own internal review of this matter. at the conclusion of our internal review in the fourth quarter of 2009, we identified possible areas of concern and discussed these areas of concern with the relevant agencies. we are currently negotiating a potential resolution with the agencies involved related to these matters. in 2011, the company acquired ameron. on or about november 21, 2008, the united states department of treasury, office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) sent a requirement to furnish information to ameron. ameron retained counsel and conducted an internal investigation. in 2009, ameron, through its counsel, responded to ofac. on or about january 21, 2011, ofac issued an administrative subpoena to ameron. ofac and ameron have entered into tolling agreements. all of the conduct under review occurred before acquisition of ameron by the company. we currently anticipate that any administrative fine or penalty agreed to as part of a resolution would be within established accruals, and would not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. to the extent a resolution is not negotiated, we cannot predict the timing or effect that any resulting government actions may have on our financial position or results of operations. 21 index to financial statements the results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including, but not limited to, the canadian dollar, the euro, the british pound sterling, the norwegian krone and the south korean won. approximately 57% of our 2011 revenue was derived from sales outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. thus, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income. because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net exposure to currency exchange fluctuations. we had forward contracts with a notional amount of $3,328 million (with a fair value of $70 million) as of december 31, 2011 to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are also subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results. an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings. the company has approximately $6.2 billion of goodwill and $0.6 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2011. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant reduction in worldwide well remediation activity; a significant reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity; resulting in an increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. see additional discussion on goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets in critical accounting estimates of item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or environmental damage and suspension of operations. 22 index to financial statements our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. the u.s. congress is currently working on legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the united states, which includes establishing cap-and-trade programs. in addition to the pending climate legislation, the u.s. environmental protection agency has proposed regulations that would require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities, and may issue final rules this year. these changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. we had revenues of 12% of total revenue from one of our customers for the year ended december 31, 2011. the loss of this customer (samsung heavy industries) or a significant reduction in its purchases could adversely affect our future revenues and earnings. the recent moratorium on deepwater drilling in the u.s. gulf of mexico and its consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business. a moratorium on deepwater drilling in the u.s. gulf of mexico was enacted during the second quarter of 2010 following the macondo well blowout and oil spill. even though such moratorium has been lifted, any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas drilling and production activity as a result of such moratorium or permitting issues in this area could result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger systems and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 23 index to financial statements glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds ( pdcs ). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. 24 index to financial statements drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. fpso a floating production, storage and offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. hydraulic fracturing the process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1. in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four-or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four-or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). 25 index to financial statements kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. compare break out. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment equipment used in: 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. 26 index to financial statements rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shaker see shale shaker shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. 27 index to financial statements tiebacks (subsea) a series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. wellhead the termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. item 1b. unresolved staff comments during 2010 the company received written comments from the sec regarding the gulf of mexico oil spill, the incident potential impact on the company business and results of operations, and the inclusion of additional disclosures in the company reports regarding the company insurance policies. the company has responded to the comments noting that its equipment was not involved in the incident and that its current disclosures comply with the sec applicable rules and regulations. therefore, the company does not believe any new or additional disclosure in its reports regarding the incident or insurance coverage is necessary or useful to investors. 28 index to financial statements item 2. properties the company owned or leased over 900 facilities worldwide as of december 31, 2011, including the following principal manufacturing, service, distribution and administrative facilities: location description building size (sqft) property size (acres) owned / leased lease termination date rig technology: lanzhou, china manufacturing plant (drilling equipment) &amp; administrative offices) 945,836 44 building owned* 10/20/2020 pampa, texas manufacturing plant 549,095 500 owned houston, texas manufacturing plant of drilling equipment 424,925 33 leased 4/30/2014 ulsan, south korea fabrication of drilling equipment 380,068 51 owned houston, texas bammel facility, repairs, service, parts, 377,750 19 leased 6/30/2022 administrative &amp; sales offices houston, texas west little york manufacturing facility, 368,450 34 owned repairs, service, administrative &amp; sales offices fort worth, texas coiled tubing manufacturing facility, 233,173 24 owned warehouse, administrative &amp; sales offices sugar land, texas manufacturing plant, warehouse &amp; 223,345 24 owned administrative offices cedar park, texas instrumentation manufacturing facility, 215,778 40 owned administrative &amp; sales offices carquefou, france manufacturing plant of offshore equipment 213,000 owned galena park, texas manufacturing plant (drilling rigs &amp; 191,913 22 owned components) &amp; administrative offices lafayette, louisiana repair, services and spares facility 189,000 17 leased 9/28/2025 aberdeen, scotland pressure control manufacturing, 188,200 5 leased 8/31/2018 administrative &amp; sales offices houston, texas manufacturing plant of drilling rigs &amp; 170,040 11 owned components, admin &amp; sales offices kristiansand, norway warehouse &amp; administrative/sales offices 167,200 1 owned orange, california manufacturing &amp; office facility 158,268 9 building 12/31/2012 owned* singapore manufacturing, repairs, service, field 149,605 3 leased 1/5/2024 service/training, administrative &amp; sales offices anderson, texas rolligon manufacturing facility, administrative &amp; sales offices 145,727 77 leased 5/10/2016 houston, texas administrative offices (westchase) 125,494 4 leased 9/30/2020 duncan, oklahoma nitrogen units manufacturing facility, warehouse &amp; offices 93,800 14 owned conroe, texas manufacturing plant, administrative &amp; sales offices 86,909 13 leased 1/7/2022 molde, norway manufacturing facility of drilling equipment 78,000 1 owned etten leur, manufacturing plant &amp; sales offices (drilling 75,000 6 owned netherlands equipment) sogne, norway warehouse and offices 70,959 4 leased 12/31/2017 edmonton, canada manufacturing plant (drilling machinery &amp; equipment) 70,346 18 owned stavanger, norway manufacturing facility of drilling equipment 41,333 1 leased 9/30/2015 dubai, uae repair &amp; overhaul of drilling equipment, warehouse &amp; sales office 31,633 2 owned aracaju, brazil fabrication of drilling equipment 11,195 1 leased 7/14/2013 new iberia, louisiana riser repair facility 10,000 2 leased m-t-m 29 index to financial statements location description building size (sqft) property size (acres) owned / leased lease termination date petroleum services &amp; supplies: navasota, texas manufacturing facility &amp; administrative offices 562,112 196 owned conroe, texas manufacturing facility of drill bits and 341,800 35 owned downhole tools, administrative &amp; sales offices houston, texas sheldon road inspection facility 319,365 192 owned veracruz, mexico manufacturing facility of tool joints, 303,400 42 leased m-t-m warehouse &amp; administrative offices houston, texas holmes rd complex: manufacturing, warehouse, coating manufacturing plant &amp; corporate offices 300,000 50 owned little rock, manufacturing facility of fiber glass products 271,924 44 owned arkansas houston, texas manufacturing, service, warehouse &amp; administrative offices (wgb) 245,319 14 leased 3/31/2018 houston, texas qt coiled tubing manufacturing facility, warehouse &amp; offices 238,428 26 owned durham, england manufacturing facility, warehouse &amp; administrative offices 183,100 13 leased 3/30/2066 dubai, uae manufacturing facility of downhole tools, distribution warehouse 180,000 1 leased 1/29/2021 conroe, texas solids control manufacturing facility, warehouse, administrative &amp; sales offices, and engineering labs 153,750 35 owned mcalester, manufacturing facility of pumps, service &amp; 139,359 25 owned oklahoma administrative offices san antonio, texas manufacturing facility of fiber glass products 120,084 20 owned edmonton, canada manufacturing facility, repairs, assembly, warehouse &amp; administrative offices 112,465 11 owned singapore manufacturing plant of roller cone drill bits, shop, warehouse &amp; administrative offices 109,663 5 leased 4/29/2048 provo, utah manufacturing facility of drilling products, fabrication, warehouse &amp; administrative offices 109,026 15 owned aberdeenshire, solids control manufacturing facility, 107,250 6 owned scotland assembly, administrative &amp; sales offices betim, brazil manufacturing facility of fiber glass products 96,691 18 owned mineral wells, texas manufacturing facility of fiber glass products 95,640 15 owned singapore manufacturing facility of fiber glass products 86,941 2 leased 10/31/2012 larose, louisiana generator rentals &amp; service, assembly, warehouse &amp; administrative offices 72,993 11 leased 6/30/2016 stonehouse, u.k. manufacturing facility, inspection plant &amp; 71,000 4 owned premium threading shop groot-ammers, workshop, warehouse &amp; offices 61,859 3 leased 12/31/2018 netherlands beaumont, texas pipe threading facility, fabrication, warehouse &amp; administrative offices 42,786 40 owned dubai, uae service facility of solids control equipment, screens &amp; spare parts, inventory warehouse, sales, rentals &amp; administrative offices 14,569 1 leased 10/31/2012 rio de janeiro, brazil service and repair center, and distribution operations 12,116 1 leased m-t-m 30 index to financial statements location description building size (sqft) property size (acres) owned / leased lease termination date distribution &amp; transmission: manchester, england manufacturing, assembly &amp; testing of pc pumps and expendable parts, administrative &amp; sales offices 244,000 11 owned tracy, california water transmission group / northern california 164,735 83 owned bogota, colombia apci fabrication, coating, machine shop 146,904 33 owned rancho cucamonga, water transmission group / southern california 130,600 73 owned california anniston, alabama pole products manufacture 121,696 20 leased 1/31/2015 houston, texas distribution and warehouse 120,423 19 building 12/31/2021 owned lloydminster, lloydminster distribution operations; applied 114,100 23 leased 5/31/2019 canada products facility edmonton, canada redistribution center 100,000 7 leased 1/31/2014 kailua, hawaii kaapa quarry 53,980 163 owned* honolulu, hawaii hawaii concrete division head quarters 21,215 3 leased 12/31/2027 corporate: houston, texas corporate and shared administrative offices 337,019 14 leased 5/31/2017 * building owned but land leased. we own or lease more than 170 repair and manufacturing facilities that refurbish and manufacture new equipment and parts, and approximately 270 distribution service centers, and 460 service centers that provide inspection and equipment rental worldwide. item 3. legal proceedings we have various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings that are pending or threatened, all arising in the ordinary course of business, with respect to commercial, product liability and employee matters. although no assurance can be given with respect to the outcome of these or any other pending legal and administrative proceedings and the effect such outcomes may have, we believe any ultimate liability resulting from the outcome of such claims, lawsuits or administrative proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. item 4. mine safety disclosures information regarding mine safety and other regulatory actions at our mines is included in exhibit 95 to this form 10-k. 31 index to financial statements part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock is traded on the new york stock exchange (nyse) under the symbol nov . the following table sets forth, for the calendar periods indicated, the range of high and low closing prices for the common stock, as reported by the nyse and the cash dividends declared per share. 2011 2010 first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter common stock sale price: high $ 82.26 $ 81.46 $ 83.31 $ 75.73 $ 47.56 $ 46.45 $ 44.85 $ 67.25 low $ 63.72 $ 65.40 $ 51.22 $ 50.23 $ 39.92 $ 33.02 $ 33.24 $ 43.94 cash dividends per share $ 0.11 $ 0.11 $ 0.11 $ 0.12 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.11 as of february 17, 2012, there were 3,444 holders of record of our common stock. many stockholders choose to own shares through brokerage accounts and other intermediaries rather than as holders of (excluding individual participants in securities positions listing) record so the actual number of stockholders is unknown but significantly higher. cash dividends aggregated $191 million and $172 million for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the company board of directors and will be dependent upon the company results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by the company board of directors. the information relating to our equity compensation plans required by item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities is incorporated by reference to such information as set forth in item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters contained herein. 32 index to financial statements performance graph the graph below compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock to the s&amp;p 500 index and the s&amp;p oil &amp; gas equipment &amp; services index. the total shareholder return assumes $100 invested on december 31, 2006 in national oilwell varco, inc., the s&amp;p 500 index and the s&amp;p oil &amp; gas equipment &amp; services index. it also assumes reinvestment of all dividends. the peer group is weighted based on the market capitalization of each company. the results shown in the graph below are not necessarily indicative of future performance. comparison of 5 year cumulative total return* among national oilwell varco, inc., the s&amp;p 500 index, and the s&amp;p oil &amp; gas equipment &amp; services index * $100 invested on 12/31/06 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. fiscal year ending december 31. copyright &copy; 2012 s&amp;p, a division of the mcgraw-hill companies inc. all rights reserved. 12/06 12/07 12/08 12/09 12/10 12/11 national oilwell varco, inc. 100.00 240.14 79.90 147.82 227.59 231.55 s&amp;p 500 100.00 105.49 66.46 84.05 96.71 98.75 s&amp;p oil &amp; gas equipment &amp; services 100.00 147.90 60.38 96.48 134.38 118.68 this information shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the commission or subject to regulation 14a (17 cfr 240.14a-1-240.14a-104), other than as provided in item 201(e) of regulation s-k, or to the liabilities of section 18 of the exchange act (15 u.s.c. 78r). 33 index to financial statements item 6. selected financial data years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 (1) 2007 (in millions, except per share data) operating data: revenue $ 14,658 $ 12,156 $ 12,712 $ 13,431 $ 9,789 operating profit 2,937 2,447 2,315 2,918 2,044 income before taxes 2,922 2,397 2,208 2,961 2,029 net income attributable to company $ 1,994 $ 1,667 $ 1,469 $ 1,952 $ 1,337 net income per share basic $ 4.73 $ 3.99 $ 3.53 $ 4.91 $ 3.77 diluted $ 4.70 $ 3.98 $ 3.52 $ 4.90 $ 3.76 cash dividends per share $ 0.45 $ 0.41 $ 1.10 $ $ other data: depreciation and amortization $ 555 $ 507 $ 490 $ 402 $ 214 capital expenditures $ 483 $ 232 $ 250 $ 379 $ 252 balance sheet data: working capital $ 6,694 $ 5,999 $ 5,084 $ 4,034 $ 3,567 total assets $ 25,515 $ 23,050 $ 21,532 $ 21,479 $ 12,115 long-term debt, less current maturities $ 159 $ 514 $ 876 $ 870 $ 738 total company stockholders equity $ 17,619 $ 15,748 $ 14,113 $ 12,628 $ 6,661 (1) financial results of grant prideco have been included in our consolidated financial statements beginning april 21, 2008, the date the grant prideco merger was completed and each of grant prideco common shares were exchanged for .4498 shares of our common stock and $23.20 in cash. financial information for prior periods and dates may not be comparable with 2008 due to the impact of this business combination on our financial position and results of operation. 34 index to financial statements item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general overview the company is a leading worldwide provider of highly engineered drilling and well-servicing equipment, products and services to the exploration and production segments of the oil and gas industry. with operations in over 900 locations across six continents, we design, manufacture and service a comprehensive line of drilling and well servicing equipment; sell and rent drilling motors, specialized downhole tools, and rig instrumentation; perform inspection and internal coating of oilfield tubular products; provide drill cuttings separation, management and disposal systems and services; provide expendables and spare parts used in conjunction with our large installed base of equipment; and provide supply chain management services through our distribution network. we also manufacture coiled tubing, manufacture high pressure fiberglass and composite tubing, and sell and rent advanced in-line inspection equipment to makers of oil country tubular goods. we have a long tradition of pioneering innovations which improve the cost-effectiveness, efficiency, safety, and environmental impact of oil and gas operations. our revenues and operating results are directly related to the level of worldwide oil and gas drilling and production activities and the profitability and cash flow of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, which in turn are affected by current and anticipated prices of oil and gas. oil and gas prices have been and are likely to continue to be volatile. see risk factors . we conduct our operations through three business segments: rig technology, petroleum services &amp; supplies and distribution &amp; transmission. see item 1. business for a discussion of each of these business segments. unless indicated otherwise, results of operations data are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ( gaap ). in an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding our results of operations, certain non-gaap financial measures, including operating profit excluding other costs, operating profit percentage excluding other costs and diluted earnings per share excluding other costs, are provided. see non-gaap financial measures and reconciliations in results of operations for an explanation of our use of non-gaap financial measures and reconciliations to their corresponding measures calculated in accordance with gaap. operating environment overview our results are dependent on, among other things, the level of worldwide oil and gas drilling, well remediation activity, the price of crude oil and natural gas, capital spending by other oilfield service companies and drilling contractors, and the worldwide oil and gas inventory levels. key industry indicators for the past three years include the following: $0000,00000 $0000,00000 $0000,00000 $0000,00000 $0000,00000 2011* 2010* 2009* % 2011 v 2010 % 2011 v 2009 active drilling rigs: u.s. 1,875 1,541 1,086 21.7 % 72.7 % canada 423 351 221 20.5 % 91.4 % international 1,168 1,094 997 6.8 % 17.2 % worldwide 3,466 2,986 2,304 16.1 % 50.4 % west texas intermediate crude prices (per barrel) $ 94.90 $ 79.40 $ 61.65 19.5 % 53.9 % natural gas prices ($/mmbtu) $ 4.00 $ 4.39 $ 3.95 (8.9 %) 1.3 % * averages for the years indicated. see sources below. 35 index to financial statements the following table details the u.s., canadian, and international rig activity and west texas intermediate oil prices for the past nine quarters ended december 31, 2011 on a quarterly basis: source: rig count: baker hughes, inc. ( www.bakerhughes.com ); west texas intermediate crude price: department of energy, energy information administration ( www.eia.doe.gov ). the average price per barrel of west texas intermediate crude was $94.90 per barrel in 2011, an increase of 19.5% over the average price for 2010 of $79.40 per barrel. average natural gas prices were $4.00 per mmbtu, a decrease of 8.9% compared to the 2010 average of $4.39 per mmbtu. higher oil prices led to increased rig activity worldwide, increasing 16.1% for the full year in 2011 compared to 2010. average crude oil prices for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $93.99 per barrel and natural gas was $3.32 per mmbtu. at february 3, 2012, there were 2,698 rigs actively drilling in north america, compared to 2,228 rigs at december 31, 2011; an increase of 21.1% from year end 2011 levels. the price of oil increased to $102.96 per barrel and gas decreased to $2.49 per mmbtu at february 3, 2012 representing a 4.2% increase in oil prices and a 16.1% decrease in gas prices from the end of 2011. 36 index to financial statements executive summary during 2011 national oilwell varco, inc. earned $2.0 billion in net income attributable to company, or $4.70 per fully diluted share. earnings per diluted share increased 18% from prior year levels of $1.7 billion or $3.98 per fully diluted share. excluding transaction, restructuring, impairment and devaluation charges from both years, diluted earnings per share of $4.77 in 2011 increased 17% from $4.09 per share in 2010. during 2011 revenues grew 21% from 2010, to $14.7 billion, and operating profit grew 20% from 2010 as well, to $2.9 billion. generally 2011 benefitted from higher drilling activity, which saw world-wide rig counts (as measured by baker hughes) increase 16% from 2010. this market improvement enabled all three of the company reporting segments to post higher year-over-year revenues in 2011. for its fourth quarter ended december 31, 2011 the company generated $574 million in net income attributable to company, or $1.35 per fully diluted share, on $4.3 billion in revenue. compared to the third quarter of 2011 revenue increased 14% and net income attributable to company increased 8%. compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 revenue increased 34% and net income attributable to company increased 30%. the fourth quarter of 2011 included pre-tax transaction charges of $12 million, the third quarter of 2011 included pre-tax transaction charges of $6 million, and the fourth quarter of 2010 included pre-tax transaction and restructuring charges of $1 million. excluding transaction and restructuring charges from all periods, fourth quarter 2011 earnings were $1.37 per fully diluted share, compared to $1.26 per fully diluted share in the third quarter of 2011 and $1.05 per fully diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2010. operating profit excluding transaction charges was $860 million or 20.2% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2011, compared to $778 million or 20.8% of sales in the third quarter of 2011 excluding transaction charges. operating profit excluding transaction and restructuring charges was $625 million or 19.7% of sales for the fourth quarter of 2010. oil and gas equipment and services market worldwide developed economies turned down sharply late in 2008 as looming housing-related asset write-downs at major financial institutions paralyzed credit markets and sparked a serious global banking crisis. major central banks responded vigorously through 2009, but a credit-driven worldwide economic recession developed nonetheless. developed economies struggled to recover throughout 2010 and 2011, facing additional economic weakness related to potential sovereign debt defaults in europe. as a result, commodity prices, including oil and gas prices, have been volatile. after rising steadily for six years to peak at around $140 per barrel earlier in 2008, oil prices collapsed back to average $43 per barrel (west texas intermediate crude) during the first quarter of 2009, but slowly recovered into the $90 to $100 per barrel range by the end of 2010 where they held relatively steady throughout 2011 (the fourth quarter of 2011 averaged $93.99 per barrel). after averaging $6 to $9 an mmbtu 2004-2008, north american gas prices declined to average $3.17 per mmbtu in the third quarter of 2009. gas prices recovered modestly, trading up above $5 six months later, but then slowly settled into the $3 to $4 per mmbtu since. the fourth quarter of 2011 averaged $3.32 per mmbtu; however, north american gas turned down sharply around year end 2011, trading below $2.50 per mmbtu, reflecting rising supplies of gas produced from new unconventional shale reservoirs. the steadily rising oil and gas prices seen between 2003 and 2008 led to high levels of exploration and development drilling in many oil and gas basins around the globe by 2008, but activity slowed sharply in 2009 with lower oil and gas prices and tightening credit availability. strengthening oil prices since then have led to steadily rising drilling activity over the past two years. the count of rigs actively drilling in the u.s. as measured by baker hughes (a good measure of the level of oilfield activity and spending) peaked at 2,031 rigs in september 2008, but decreased to a low of 876 in june, 2009. u.s. rig count has since increased steadily to average 2,010 rigs during the fourth quarter of 2011. many oil and gas operators reliant on external financing to fund their drilling programs significantly curtailed their drilling activity in 2009, but drilling recovered across north america as gas prices improved. recently low gas prices have caused operators to trim drilling, driving the u.s. gas rig count down 21% to 720 in the past year. however, with high and stabilizing oil prices many redirected drilling efforts towards unconventional shale plays targeting oil, rather than gas. oil drilling has risen to 64% of the total domestic drilling effort and at 1,263 rigs drilling, is at the highest levels in the u.s. since the early 1980 s. most international activity is driven by oil exploration and production by national oil companies, which has historically been less susceptible to short-term commodity price swings, but the international rig count has exhibited modest declines nonetheless, falling from its september 2008 peak of 1,108 to 947 in august 2009. recently international drilling rebounded due to high oil prices, climbing back to 1,171 in january 2012. 37 index to financial statements during 2009 the company saw its petroleum services &amp; supplies and its distribution &amp; transmission margins affected most acutely by a drilling downturn, through both volume and price declines. resumption of drilling activity since enabled both of these segments to gain volume, stabilize and lift pricing, and improve margins since the third quarter of 2009. the company rig technology segment was less impacted by the 2009 downturn owing to its high level of contracted backlog which it executed on very well. it posted higher revenues in 2009 than 2008 as a result. its revenues declined in 2010 as its backlog declined, but increased 12% in 2011 as orders for new offshore rigs began to increase. the recent economic decline beginning in late 2008 followed an extended period of high drilling activity which fueled strong demand for oilfield services between 2003 and 2008. incremental drilling activity through the upswing shifted toward harsh environments, employing increasingly sophisticated technology to find and produce reserves. higher utilization of drilling rigs tested the capability of the world fleet of rigs, much of which is old and of limited capability. technology has advanced significantly since most of the existing rig fleet was built. the industry invested little during the late 1980 and 1990 on new drilling equipment, but drilling technology progressed steadily nonetheless, as the company and its competitors continued to invest in new and better ways of drilling. as a consequence, the safety, reliability, and efficiency of new, modern rigs surpass the performance of most of the older rigs at work today. drilling rigs are now being pushed to drill deeper wells, more complex wells, highly deviated wells and horizontal wells, tasks which require larger rigs with more capabilities. the drilling process effectively consumes the mechanical components of a rig, which wear out and need periodic repair or replacement. this process was accelerated by very high rig utilization and wellbore complexity. drilling consumes rigs; more complex and challenging drilling consumes rigs faster. the industry responded by launching many new rig construction projects since 2005, to 1) retool the existing fleet of jackup rigs (according to offshore data services, 70% of the existing 476 jackup rigs are more than 25 years old); 2) replace older mechanical and dc electric land rigs with improved ac power, electronic controls, automatic pipe handling and rapid rigup and rigdown technology; and 3) build out additional deepwater floating drilling rigs, including semisubmersibles and drillships, to employ recent advancements in deepwater drilling to exploit unexplored deepwater basins. we believe that the newer rigs offer considerably higher efficiency, safety, and capability, and that many will effectively replace a portion of the existing fleet. as a result of these trends the company rig technology segment grew its backlog of capital equipment orders from $0.9 billion at march 31, 2005, to $11.8 billion at september 30, 2008. however, as a result of the credit crisis and slowing drilling activity, orders declined below amounts flowing out of backlog as revenue, causing the backlog to decline to $4.9 billion by june 30, 2010. the backlog increased steadily since as drillers began ordering more than the company shipped out of backlog, and finished 2011 at $10.2 billion. approximately $6.6 billion of these orders are scheduled to flow out as revenue during 2012; $1.8 billion are scheduled to flow out as revenue during 2013; and the balance thereafter. the land rig backlog comprised 14% and equipment destined for offshore operations comprised 86% of the total backlog as of december 31, 2011. equipment destined for international markets totaled 86% of the backlog. segment performance the rig technology segment generated $7.8 billion in revenues and $2.1 billion in operating profit or 26.4% of sales during 2011. compared to the prior year revenues improved 12%, but generated no incremental operating profit year-over-year due to a broad change in the segment business mix, which led to lower margins. offshore projects contracted at high prices in 2007 and 2008 were manufactured in low cost environments in 2010, resulting in high margins (29.6%) for the group. as these projects were completed and replaced with lower priced projects, 2011 margins declined 310 basis points from the prior year. for the fourth quarter of 2011 the segment produced revenues of $2,316 million, representing an 18% improvement from the third quarter and a 32% improvement from the fourth quarter of 2010. segment operating profit was $597 million and operating margins were 25.8% during the fourth quarter. operating leverage or flow-through was 21% sequentially, and 17% year-over-year, lower than the 30% that is typical for the group owing to the mix effect described above. revenue out of backlog grew 26% sequentially and 40% year-over-year. non-backlog revenue, which is predominantly aftermarket spares and services, declined four percent sequentially and increased 11% from the fourth quarter of 2010. orders for three deepwater floating rigs, six jackup drilling packages, and higher land drilling rig, pressure pumping and stimulation equipment demand contributed to total order additions to backlog of $1,668 million during the fourth quarter, capping a year in which orders for the segment set a new record of $10.8 billion. interest in offshore rig construction has remained strong as announced dayrates for deepwater offshore rigs appears to be increasing, rig building costs have stabilized, and financing appears to be available for most established drillers. the company booked an order for seven drillships for brazil in the third quarter of 2011, and continues to tender additional new offshore rig projects for petrobras to shipyards and drilling contractors, which are to be built in brazil. however, further potential bookings of any additional offshore rigs for brazil are likely to continue to be subject to delays. 38 index to financial statements the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment generated $5.7 billion in revenue and $1.1 billion in operating profit, or 19.0% of sales, for the full year 2011. compared to the prior year revenue increased 35%, and operating leverage or flow-through (the change in operating profit divided by the change in revenue) was 33%. for the fourth quarter of 2011 the segment generated total sales of $1,570 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, up 8% from the third quarter of 2011 and up 38 % from the fourth quarter of 2010. operating profit was $295 million or 18.8% of sales during the fourth quarter of 2011. year-over-year operating leverage or flow-through from the fourth quarter of 2010 to the fourth quarter of 2011 was 29%. the ameron acquisition was completed on october 5, 2011 and its composite pipe segment is being integrated into the group fiberglass and composite pipe products. sequential revenue growth was evenly spread across most major areas, albeit with mix shifts from product to product. europe, russia and the far east posted some of the largest sequential gains, along with good sequential improvement in the u.s. centered in the liquids rich shale plays like the bakken and the eagle ford. wellsite services and downhole tools posted strong sequential sales growth on higher sales in the eastern hemisphere, canada, and u.s. shales. drill pipe orders were steady for the quarter, but margins were down as more greentubes were purchased from third party suppliers at higher prices, rather than from the company joint venture supplier of greentubes. the distribution &amp; transmission segment generated $1.9 billion in revenue and $135 million in operating profit or 7.2% of sales during 2011. revenues improved 21% from 2010, and flow-through or operating leverage was 17% from 2010 to 2011. for the fourth quarter of 2011 revenues were $560 million, up 17% from the third quarter of 2011 and up 32% from the fourth quarter of 2010. operating profit of $45 million for the fourth quarter produced operating margins of 8.0% for the quarter, and operating leverage or flow-through was 10% from the third quarter of 2011 and 11% from the fourth quarter of 2010. results for the fourth quarter included the ameron water transmission and infrastructure products segments from october 5, 2011 onward, which were modestly dilutive to the group margins. the legacy distribution portion of the segment saw revenues up slightly, with strong flow-throughs, due to excellent performance in canada. international was up slightly and the us was down slightly due to rig moves towards liquids plays, together with related drill site construction delays and weather issues in a few markets. approximately 74% of the group fourth quarter sales were into north american markets and 26% into international markets. outlook following the credit market downturn, global recession, and lower commodity prices of 2009, we saw signs of stabilization and recovery in many of our markets in 2010 and into 2011, led by higher drilling activity in north america and slowly improving international drilling activity. order levels for new drilling rigs has rebounded sharply, and the rig technology segment continues to experience a high level of interest in new capital equipment. rig dayrates appear to be improving for certain classes of newer technology rigs, and appear to be trending higher for deepwater offshore rigs. we expect lower pricing in our backlog to lead to modest declines in rig technology margins in the first half of 2012, until recently won offshore rig construction orders begin to generate revenues at higher margins. our outlook for the company petroleum services &amp; supplies segment and distribution &amp; transmission segment remains closely tied to the rig count, particularly in north america. if the oil rig count growth seen over the past few quarters continues to increase and more than offset gas rig declines, we expect these segments to benefit from higher demand for the services, consumables and capital items they supply. however, if continued curtailment of gas drilling leads overall rig counts lower, as has been the case for the past few months, then pricing and volumes may come under pressure. the company believes it is well positioned, and should benefit from its strong balance sheet and capitalization, access to credit, and a high level of contracted orders which are expected to continue to generate earnings during 2012. the company has a long history of cost-control and downsizing in response to depressed market conditions, and of executing strategic acquisitions during difficult periods. such a period may present opportunities to the company to effect new organic growth and acquisition initiatives, and we remain hopeful that a downturn will generate new opportunities. still the recovery of the world economy continues to move forward with a great deal of uncertainty as the world watches the sovereign debt crises in several european countries unfold, market turbulence and general global economic worries. if such global economic uncertaintanties develop adversely, world oil and gas prices could be impacted which in turn could negatively impact the worldwide rig count and the company future financial results. 39 index to financial statements results of operations years ended december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010 the following table summarizes the company revenue and operating profit by operating segment in 2011 and 2010 (in millions): $00,0000 $00,0000 $00,0000 $00,0000 years ended december 31, variance 2011 2010 $ % revenue: rig technology $ 7,788 $ 6,965 $ 823 11.8 % petroleum services &amp; supplies 5,654 4,182 1,472 35.2 % distribution &amp; transmission 1,873 1,546 327 21.2 % eliminations (657 ) (537 ) (120 ) 22.3 % total revenue $ 14,658 $ 12,156 $ 2,502 20.6 % operating profit: rig technology $ 2,053 $ 2,064 $ (11 ) (0.5 %) petroleum services &amp; supplies 1,072 585 487 83.2 % distribution &amp; transmission 135 78 57 73.1 % unallocated expenses and eliminations (323 ) (280 ) (43 ) 15.4 % total operating profit $ 2,937 $ 2,447 $ 490 20.0 % operating profit %: rig technology 26.4 % 29.6 % petroleum services &amp; supplies 19.0 % 14.0 % distribution &amp; transmission 7.2 % 5.0 % total operating profit % 20.0 % 20.1 % rig technology rig technology revenue for the year ended december 31, 2011 was $7,788 million, an increase of $823 million (11.8%) compared to 2010. deepwater offshore drilling world-wide and active shale plays in the u.s. continue to be the driving force for the increase in revenue for this segment resulting in both increased rig construction as well as demand for aftermarket spare parts and services. in addition, strategic acquisitions in the u.s. and singapore contributed to the increase in revenue for this segment. operating profit from rig technology was $2,053 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, a decrease of $11 million (0.5%) over the same period of 2010. operating profit percentage decreased to 26.4%, from 29.6% in 2010 primarily due to decrease in the average margin of revenue out of backlog as contracts signed during 2009 and 2010 contain less favorable margins compared to contracts won during the order ramp-up from 2005 to 2008. this decrease in margins was partially offset by the increase in demand for aftermarket spare parts and services. the rig technology segment monitors its capital equipment backlog to plan its business. new orders are added to backlog only when the company receives a firm written order for major drilling rig components or a signed contract related to a construction project. the capital equipment backlog was $10.2 billion at december 31, 2011, an increase of $5.2 billion (104.0%) from backlog of $5.0 billion at december 31, 2010. the $5.2 billion increase in backlog included the largest order in the company history in the amount of approximately $1.5 billion won during the third quarter of 2011. $6.6 billion of the current backlog is expected to be delivered in 2012. petroleum services &amp; supplies revenue from petroleum services &amp; supplies was $5,654 million for 2011 compared to $4,182 million for 2010, an increase of $1,472 million (35.2%). the increase was primarily attributable to shale plays leading to a strong north american market with a 21.7% increase in u.s. rig activity and a 20.5% increase in canada rig activity compared to 2010. north american shale plays continue to be a driving force in the increase in revenues across most business units within this segment. in addition, strategic acquisitions in the u.s., the u.k., the netherlands, singapore, malaysia and brazil contributed to the increase in revenue for this segment. 40 index to financial statements operating profit from petroleum services &amp; supplies was $1,072 million for 2011 compared to $585 million for 2010, an increase of $487 million (83.2%). operating profit percentage increased to 19.0% up from 14.0% in 2010. this increase is primarily due to increased volume with a strong north american demand fueled by an increase in rig count as well as continued favorable pricing within most business units within the segment. the increase was partially offset by lower levels of activity in the middle east due to continued unrest in that region. this unrest resulted in the write-down, in the first quarter, of libyan assets of $15 million, mostly related to accounts receivable affected by sanctions enacted during the quarter along with the write off of certain inventory and fixed assets in the country. the company rig technology and distribution &amp; transmission segments incurred $2 million of such asset write-downs during the first quarter for a total of $17 million in libyan asset write-downs incurred by the company. distribution &amp; transmission revenue from distribution &amp; transmission totaled $1,873 million for 2011, an increase of $327 million (21.2%) from 2010. this increase was primarily attributable to increased rig count activity in canada and the u.s. internationally, the segments mono business unit also contributed to the increase in revenues as demand for its power sections and artificial lift products increased in 2011 compared to 2010. in addition, strategic acquisitions in the u.s. and the u.k. contributed to the increase in revenue for this segment. operating profit increased in 2011 to $135 million compared to $78 million in 2010. operating profit percentage increased to 7.2% in 2011 from 5.0% in 2010 primarily due to greater cost efficiencies and better pricing related to strong demand fueled by an increase in canada and u.s. rig count activity. this increase was partially offset by rig moves towards liquid shale plays, drill site construction delays and weather issues towards the end of the year in certain markets in which this segment participates. unallocated expenses and eliminations unallocated expenses and eliminations in operating profit were $323 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to $280 million for 2010. this increase is primarily due to the increased activity along all segments which in turn resulted in higher intersegment eliminations and higher incentive compensation. equity income in unconsolidated affiliates equity income in unconsolidated affiliates was $46 million for 2011 compared to $36 million for 2010, a $10 million increase which was primarily related to increased equity earnings from the company 50.01% investment in voest-alpine tubulars ( vat ) located in kindberg, austria. other income (expense), net other income (expense), net was expense of $39 million in 2011 compared to expense of $49 million in 2010. the decrease in expense was primarily due to lower foreign exchange losses in 2011 compared to 2010. the venezuelan government officially devalued the venezuelan bolivar against the u.s. dollar in 2010. the company converted its venezuela ledgers to u.s. dollar functional currency and devalued monetary assets resulting in a $27 million foreign exchange loss during 2010. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange rates. lower exchange losses were partially offset by increased bank charges. the increase in bank charges is primarily due to an increase in our standby letters of credit coupled with increased bank activity through growth both internally and through. provision for income taxes the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2011 was 32.1%, compared to 30.8% for 2010. compared to the u.s. statutory rate, the effective tax rate was positively impacted in the period by the effect of lower tax rates on income in foreign jurisdictions, an increase in the benefit of the manufacturing deduction as a result of increasing income in the u.s., plus the effect of tax rate reductions on timing differences in foreign jurisdictions. this was partially offset by additional prior period taxes on foreign dividends. the impact of these prior period discrete items is not material to any individual prior period. 41 index to financial statements years ended december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009 the following table summarizes the company revenue and operating profit by operating segment in 2010 and 2009 (in millions): $000,00000 $000,00000 $000,00000 $000,00000 years ended december 31, variance 2010 2009 $ % revenue: rig technology $ 6,965 $ 8,093 $ (1,128 ) (13.9 %) petroleum services &amp; supplies 4,182 3,745 437 11.7 % distribution &amp; transmission 1,546 1,350 196 14.5 % eliminations (537 ) (476 ) (61 ) 12.8 % total revenue $ 12,156 $ 12,712 $ (556 ) (4.4 %) operating profit: rig technology $ 2,064 $ 2,283 $ (219 ) (9.6 %) petroleum services &amp; supplies 585 301 284 94.4 % distribution &amp; transmission 78 50 28 56.0 % unallocated expenses and eliminations (280 ) (319 ) 39 (12.2 %) total operating profit $ 2,447 $ 2,315 $ 132 5.7 % operating profit %: rig technology 29.6 % 28.2 % petroleum services &amp; supplies 14.0 % 8.0 % distribution &amp; transmission 5.0 % 3.7 % total operating profit % 20.1 % 18.2 % rig technology rig technology revenue for the year ended december 31, 2010 was $6,965 million, a decrease of $1,128 million (13.9%) compared to 2009, primarily due to the decrease of revenue out of backlog of $1,048 million. non-backlog revenue decreased 4.3% primarily due to lower capital equipment shipments in 2010. operating profit from rig technology was $2,064 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, a decrease of $219 million (9.6%) over the same period of 2009. operating profit percentage increased to 29.6%, up from 28.2% in 2009 primarily due to lower costs than originally estimated on large rig projects as well as improved manufacturing efficiencies. the rig technology segment monitors its capital equipment backlog to plan its business. new orders are added to backlog only when we receive a firm written order for major drilling rig components or a signed contract related to a construction project. the capital equipment backlog was $5.0 billion at december 31, 2010, a decrease of $1.4 billion (21.8%) from backlog of $6.4 billion at december 31, 2009. petroleum services &amp; supplies revenue from petroleum services &amp; supplies was $4,182 million for 2010 compared to $3,745 million for 2009, an increase of $437 million (11.7%). the increase was primarily attributable to a 41.9% increase in average rig count activity in the u.s. market in 2010 compared to 2009. operating profit from petroleum services &amp; supplies was $585 million for 2010 compared to $301 million for 2009, an increase of $284 million (94.4%). operating profit percentage increased to 14.0% up from 8.0% in 2009. the 2009 results included a $147 million impairment charge on the carrying value of a trade name associated with this segment. in addition, strong domestic demand fueled by an increase in domestic rig count contributed to the increase in revenue and resulting improvement in operating profit. 42 index to financial statements distribution &amp; transmission revenue from distribution &amp; transmission totaled $1,546 million for 2010, an increase of $196 million (14.5%) from 2009. this increase was primarily attributable to increased u.s. rig count activity in general and due to the oil spill in the gulf of mexico, which drove significant emergency project work during 2010. operating profit increased in 2010 to $78 million compared to $50 million in 2009. operating profit percentage increased to 5.0% in 2010 from 3.7% in 2009 primarily due to increased volume and favorable pricing in 2010. unallocated expenses and eliminations unallocated expenses and eliminations in operating profit were $280 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to $319 million for 2009. the decrease is primarily due to $46 million of voluntary retirement costs that were taken in 2009. this was slightly offset by higher intercompany profit elimination related to sales between the segments and an $11 million write-down of certain accounts receivable in venezuela during 2010. interest and financial costs interest and financial costs were $50 million for 2010 compared to $53 million for 2009. the decrease in interest and financial costs was due to an overall decrease in average debt levels for 2010 compared to 2009. equity income in unconsolidated affiliate equity income in unconsolidated affiliate was $36 million for 2010 compared to $47 million for 2009 and was related to the equity earnings from the company 50.01% investment in voest-alpine tubulars ( vat ) located in kindberg, austria. other income (expense), net other income (expense), net was expense of $49 million in 2010 compared to expense of $110 million in 2009. the decrease in expense was primarily due to a net foreign exchange loss of $30 million in 2010 compared to $79 million loss in 2009. the lower 2010 foreign exchange losses were primarily due to the current economic environment and the weakening of the euro, the british pound sterling and norwegian krone compared to the u.s. dollar. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange rates. provision for income taxes the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2010 was 30.8 % compared to 33.3% for 2009. the tax rate for 2010 includes $37 million of reduction in tax provision for the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions associated with the settlement of audits and lapse of applicable statutes of limitations plus the recovery of prior year taxes. the tax rate for 2009 includes $21 million of additional tax provision recognized on prior year income in norway. 43 index to financial statements non-gaap financial measures and reconciliations in an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding our results as determined by gaap, we disclose various non-gaap financial measures in our quarterly earnings press releases and other public disclosures. the primary non-gaap financial measures we focus on are: (i) operating profit excluding other costs, (ii) operating profit percentage excluding other costs, and (iii) diluted earnings per share excluding other costs. each of these financial measures excludes the impact of certain other costs and therefore has not been calculated in accordance with gaap. a reconciliation of each of these non-gaap financial measures to its most comparable gaap financial measure is included below. we use these non-gaap financial measures because we believe it provides useful supplemental information regarding the company on-going economic performance and, therefore, use these non-gaap financial measures internally to evaluate and manage the company operations. we have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform more meaningful comparisons of operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of on-going operations. the following tables set forth the reconciliations of these non-gaap financial measures to their most comparable gaap financial measures (in millions, except per share data): $000,00000 $000,00000 $000,00000 $000,00000 $000,00000 $000,00000 three months ended december 31, september 30, 2011 years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 reconciliation of operating profit: gaap operating profit $ 848 $ 624 $ 772 $ 2,937 $ 2,447 $ 2,315 other costs: transaction costs 12 1 6 24 7 41 libya asset write-down 17 devaluation costs 38 voluntary early retirement costs 46 intangible asset impairment 147 operating profit excluding other costs $ 860 $ 625 $ 778 $ 2,978 $ 2,492 $ 2,549 three months ended december 31, september 30, 2011 years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 reconciliation of operating profit %: gaap operating profit % 19.9 % 19.7 % 20.6 % 20.0 % 20.1 % 18.2 % other costs % 0.3 % 0.0 % 0.2 % 0.3 % 0.2 % 1.9 % operating profit % excluding other costs 20.2 % 19.7 % 20.8 % 20.3 % 20.3 % 20.1 % three months ended december 31, september 30, 2011 years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 reconciliation of diluted earnings per share: gaap earnings per share $ 1.35 $ 1.05 $ 1.25 $ 4.70 $ 3.98 $ 3.52 other costs 0.02 0.01 0.07 0.11 0.37 earnings per share excluding other costs $ 1.37 $ 1.05 $ 1.26 $ 4.77 $ 4.09 $ 3.89 44 index to financial statements liquidity and capital resources the company assesses liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund operating, investing and financing activities. the company continues to generate substantial cash from its operating activities and remains in a strong financial position, with resources available to reinvest in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and capital expenditures to meet short- and long-term objectives. the company believes that cash on hand, cash generated from expected results of operations and amounts available under its revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund operations, anticipated working capital needs and other cash requirements such as capital expenditures, debt and interest payments and dividend payments for the foreseeable future. at december 31, 2011, the company had cash and cash equivalents of $3,535 million, and total debt of $510 million. at december 31, 2010, cash and cash equivalents were $3,333 million and total debt was $887 million. a significant portion of the consolidated cash balances are maintained in accounts in various foreign subsidiaries and, if such amounts were transferred among countries or repatriated to the u.s., such amounts may be subject to additional tax obligations. of the $3,535 million of cash and cash equivalents at december 31, 2011, approximately $3,300 million is held outside the u.s. of this amount, approximately $1,900 million is considered permanently reinvested and is available to fund operations and other growth of foreign subsidiaries including, but not limited to, capital expenditures, acquisitions and working capital needs. the company intends to permanently reinvest earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. if opportunities to invest in the u.s. are greater than available cash balances, the company may choose to borrow against its revolving credit facility. liquidity in the u.s. was reduced in the fourth quarter as a result of funding the ameron acquisition and significant capital expenditures. the company outstanding debt at december 31, 2011 consisted of $200 million of 5.65% senior notes due 2012, $150 million of 5.5% senior notes due 2012, $151 million of 6.125% senior notes due 2015, and other debt of $9 million. the company has a $2 billion, five-year revolving credit facility which expires april 30, 2013. at december 31, 2011 there were no borrowings against the credit facility, and there were $862 million in outstanding letters of credit issued under the credit facility, resulting in $1,138 million of funds available under this revolving credit facility. interest under this multicurrency facility is based upon libor, nibor or euribor plus 0.26% subject to a ratings-based grid, or the prime rate. the credit facility contains a financial covenant regarding maximum debt to capitalization and the company was in compliance at december 31, 2011. the company also had $1,863 million of additional outstanding letters of credit at december 31, 2011, primarily in norway, that are under various bilateral committed letter of credit facilities. other letters of credit are issued as bid bonds and performance bonds. the following table summarizes our net cash flows provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities for the periods presented (in millions): years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,143 $ 1,542 $ 2,095 net cash used in investing activities (1,458 ) (743 ) (552 ) net cash used in financing activities (464 ) (102 ) (491 ) operating activities net cash provided by operating activities continues to be the company primary source of funding, generating $2,143 million in 2011, an increase of $601 million compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1,542 million in 2010. the increase in net cash provided by operation activities was primarily driven by increased activity among all segments. before changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions, cash was provided by operations primarily through net income of $1,985 million plus non-cash charges of $203 million. net changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions, used $164 million in 2011 compared to $631 million used in 2010. due to an increase in market activity during 2011 compared to 2010, revenue and backlog (milestone invoicing) increased which is reflected in increased accounts receivable coupled with a buildup in inventory, partially offset by a decrease in costs in excess of billings and an increase in billings in excess of costs. incentive compensation and tax payments contributed to the reduction in other assets/liabilities, net in 2011 compared to 2010. the company received $58 million and $33 million in dividends from its unconsolidated affiliate in 2011 and 2010, respectively. the portion included in operating activities in 2011 and 2010 was $45 million and $17 million, respectively. the remaining $13 million and $16 million were included in investing activities in 2011 and 2010, respectively. 45 index to financial statements investing activities net cash used in investing activities was $1,458 million in 2011 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $743 million in 2010. net cash used in investing activities continued to primarily be the result of acquisition activity and capital expenditures both of which increased in 2011 compared to 2010. the company used $1,038 million for the purpose of strategic acquisitions in 2011 compared to $556 million in 2010. in addition, due to the continued growth in the company worldwide both internally and through acquisition, the company used $483 million in 2011 for capital expenditure compared to $232 million in 2010. during 2011, the company used its cash on hand to fund its acquisitions and capital expenditures. financing activities net cash used in financing activities was $464 million in 2011 compared to cash used in financing activities of $102 million in 2010. the $362 million increase in cash used in financing activities in 2011 primarily related to the repayment of $150 million in senior notes that were due late in the first quarter of 2011, $200 million in senior notes that were due in the second quarter of 2011 as well as $20 million in other current borrowings repaid during 2011. the company increased its dividend slightly to $191 million in 2011 compared to $172 million in 2010. the increase in cash used was partially offset by $96 million in proceeds from stock options exercised during 2011 compared to $73 million in proceeds from stock options exercised during 2010. the effect of the change in exchange rates on cash flows resulted in a negative impact of $19 million and a positive impact of $14 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. a summary of the company outstanding contractual obligations at december 31, 2011 is as follows (in millions): $00,0000000 $00,0000000 $00,0000000 $00,0000000 $00,0000000 payment due by period total less than 1 year 1-3 years 4-5 years after 5 years contractual obligations: total debt $ 510 $ 351 $ 6 $ 153 $ operating leases 717 150 198 127 242 total contractual obligations $ 1,227 $ 501 $ 204 $ 280 $ 242 commercial commitments: standby letters of credit $ 2,725 $ 1,388 $ 967 $ 248 $ 122 as of december 31, 2011, the company had $131 million of unrecognized tax benefits. this represents the tax benefits associated with various tax positions taken, or expected to be taken, on domestic and international tax returns that have not been recognized in our financial statements due to uncertainty regarding their resolution. due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with these unrecognized tax benefits, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. accordingly, unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. for further information related to unrecognized tax benefits, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. we intend to pursue additional acquisition candidates, but the timing, size or success of any acquisition effort and the related potential capital commitments cannot be predicted. we expect to fund future cash acquisitions and capital expenditures primarily with cash flow from operations and borrowings, including the unborrowed portion of the credit facility or new debt issuances, but may also issue additional equity either directly or in connection with acquisitions. there can be no assurance that additional financing for acquisitions will be available at terms acceptable to us or at all. 46 index to financial statements critical accounting estimates in preparing the financial statements, we make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported. we periodically evaluate our estimates and judgments that are most critical in nature which are related to revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts; allowance for doubtful accounts; inventory reserves; impairments of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets); goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets; service and product warranties and income taxes. our estimates are based on historical experience and on our future expectations that we believe are reasonable. the combination of these factors forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results are likely to differ from our current estimates and those differences may be material. revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts the company uses the percentage-of-completion method to account for certain long-term construction contracts in the rig technology segment. these long-term construction contracts include the following characteristics: the contracts include custom designs for customer specific applications; the structural design is unique and requires significant engineering efforts; and construction projects often have progress payments. this method requires the company to make estimates regarding the total costs of the project, progress against the project schedule and the estimated completion date, all of which impact the amount of revenue and gross margin the company recognizes in each reporting period. the company prepares detailed cost to complete estimates at the beginning of each project, taking into account all factors considered likely to affect gross margin. significant projects and their related costs and profit margins are updated and reviewed at least quarterly by senior management. factors that may affect future project costs and margins include shipyard access, weather, production efficiencies, availability and costs of labor, materials and subcomponents and other factors as mentioned in risk factors. these factors can significantly impact the accuracy of the company estimates and materially impact the company future reported earnings. historically, the company estimates have been reasonably dependable regarding the recognition of revenues and gross profits on percentage-of-completion contracts. based upon an analysis of percentage-of-completion contracts for all open contracts outstanding at december 31, 2010 and 2009, adjustments (representing the differences between the estimated and actual results) to all outstanding contracts resulted in net increases to gross profit margins of 2.0% ($185 million on $9.3 billion of outstanding contracts) and 1.4% ($119 million on $8.6 billion of outstanding contracts) for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. while the company believes that its estimates on outstanding contracts at december 31, 2011 and in future periods will continue to be reasonably dependable under percentage-of-completion accounting, the factors identified in the preceding paragraph could result in significant adjustments in future periods. the company has recorded revenue on outstanding contracts (on a contract-to-date basis) of $9.6 billion at december 31, 2011. allowance for doubtful accounts the determination of the collectability of amounts due from customer accounts requires the company to make judgments regarding future events and trends. allowances for doubtful accounts are determined based on a continuous process of assessing the company portfolio on an individual customer basis taking into account current market conditions and trends. this process consists of a thorough review of historical collection experience, current aging status of the customer accounts, and financial condition of the company customers. based on a review of these factors, the company will establish or adjust allowances for specific customers. a substantial portion of the company revenues come from international oil companies, international shipyards, international oilfield service companies, and government-owned or government-controlled oil companies. therefore, the company has significant receivables in many foreign jurisdictions. if worldwide oil and gas drilling activity or changes in economic conditions in foreign jurisdictions deteriorate, the creditworthiness of the company customers could also deteriorate and they may be unable to pay these receivables, and additional allowances could be required. at december 31, 2011 and 2010, allowance for bad debts totaled $107 million and $107 million, or 3.1% and 4.2% of gross accounts receivable, respectively. historically, the company charge-offs and provisions for the allowance for doubtful accounts have been immaterial to the company consolidated financial statements. however, because of the risk factors mentioned above, changes in our estimates could become material in future periods. 47 index to financial statements inventory reserves inventory is carried at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. the company determines reserves for inventory based on historical usage of inventory on-hand, assumptions about future demand and market conditions, and estimates about potential alternative uses, which are usually limited. the company inventory consists of specialized spare parts, work in process, and raw materials to support ongoing manufacturing operations and the company large installed base of specialized equipment used throughout the oilfield. customers rely on the company to stock these specialized items to ensure that their equipment can be repaired and serviced in a timely manner. the company estimated carrying value of inventory therefore depends upon demand driven by oil and gas drilling and well remediation activity, which depends in turn upon oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the company customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. at december 31, 2011 and 2010, inventory reserves totaled $281 million and $270 million, or 6.5% and 7.4% of gross inventory, respectively. while inventory reserves and accruals have not had a material impact on the company financial results for the periods covered in this report, changes in worldwide oil and gas activity, or the development of new technologies which make older drilling technologies obsolete, could require the company to record additional allowances to reduce the value of its inventory. such changes in our estimates could be material under weaker market conditions or outlook. impairment of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets) long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment and identified intangible assets, comprise a significant amount of the company total assets. the company makes judgments and estimates in conjunction with the carrying value of these assets, including amounts to be capitalized, depreciation and amortization methods and estimated useful lives. the carrying values of these assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. an impairment loss is recorded in the period in which it is determined that the carrying amount is not recoverable. we estimate the fair value of these intangible and fixed assets using an income approach. this requires the company to make long-term forecasts of its future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review. these forecasts require assumptions about demand for the company products and services, future market conditions and technological developments. the forecasts are dependent upon assumptions regarding oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the company customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. the financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our income forecast as well as our weighted-average cost of capital, both key assumptions used in our calculation. changes to these assumptions, including, but not limited to: sustained declines in worldwide rig counts below current analysts forecasts, collapse of spot and futures prices for oil and gas, significant deterioration of external financing for our customers, higher risk premiums or higher cost of equity, or any other significant adverse economic news could require a provision for impairment in a future period. goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets the company has approximately $6.2 billion of goodwill and $0.6 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2011. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually or more frequently whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include, but not limited to: further sustained declines in worldwide rig counts below current analysts forecasts, further collapse of spot and futures prices for oil and gas, significant additional deterioration of external financing for our customers, higher risk premiums or higher cost of equity. the annual impairment test is performed during the fourth quarter of each year. based on its analysis, the company did not report any impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010. as described below, the company concluded that an indicator of impairment occurred in the second quarter of 2009 and updated its impairment testing at june 30, 2009. based on its updated analysis, the company concluded that it did not incur an impairment of goodwill for the period ended june 30, 2009. however, based on the company indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment analysis performed during the second quarter of 2009, the company concluded that it incurred an impairment charge to certain indefinite-lived intangible assets of $147 million at june 30, 2009. the $147 million impairment charge is included in the company consolidated income statement for the year ended december 31, 2009. 48 index to financial statements during the second quarter of 2009, the worldwide average rig count was 2,009 rigs, down 41% from the fourth quarter 2008 average of 3,395 and down 25% from the first quarter 2009 average of 2,681. the second quarter 2009 average rig count represented the lowest quarterly average in the past six years. in addition, the company updated forecast was behind the company previous forecast completed at the beginning of 2009. while operating profit for the first quarter of 2009 was in line with the company first quarter 2009 operating profit forecast, the company consolidated operating profit for the second quarter of 2009 was below its second quarter 2009 forecast. as a result of the substantial decline in the worldwide rig count, and the decline in actual/forecasted results compared to the original 2009 forecast, the company concluded that events or circumstances had occurred indicating that goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets might be impaired as described under accounting standards codification ( asc ) topic 350 intangibles goodwill and other . therefore, the company performed its interim impairment test of goodwill for all its reporting units at the end of the second quarter of 2009. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined by deducting the fair value of a reporting unit identifiable assets and liabilities from the fair value of that reporting unit as a whole. fair value of the reporting units is determined in accordance with asc topic 820 fair value measurements and disclosures using significant unobservable inputs, or level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. these inputs are based on internal management estimates, forecasts and judgments, using a combination of three methods: discounted cash flow, comparable companies, and representative transactions. while the company primarily uses the discounted cash flow method to assess fair value, the company uses the comparable companies and representative transaction methods to validate the discounted cash flow analysis and further support management expectations, where possible. the discounted cash flow is based on management short-term and long-term forecast of operating performance for each reporting unit. the two main assumptions used in measuring goodwill impairment, which bear the risk of change and could impact the company goodwill impairment analysis, include the cash flow from operations from each of the company individual business units and the weighted average cost of capital. the starting point for each of the reporting unit cash flow from operations is the detailed annual plan or updated forecast. the detailed planning and forecasting process takes into consideration a multitude of factors including worldwide rig activity, inflationary forces, pricing strategies, customer analysis, operational issues, competitor analysis, capital spending requirements, working capital needs, customer needs to replace aging equipment, increased complexity of drilling, new technology, and existing backlog among other items which impact the individual reporting unit projections. cash flows beyond the specific operating plans were estimated using a terminal value calculation, which incorporated historical and forecasted financial cyclical trends for each reporting unit and considered long-term earnings growth rates. the financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate. during times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit changes are a short-term or long-term trend. projections for the remainder of 2009 also reflected declines compared to the original 2009 annual forecast. the company updated its 2009 operating forecast, long-term forecast, and discounted cash flows based on this information. the goodwill impairment analysis that we performed during the second quarter of 2009 did not result in goodwill impairment as of june 30, 2009. other indefinite-lived intangible assets, representing trade names management intends to use indefinitely, were valued using significant unobservable inputs (level 3) and are tested for impairment using the relief from royalty method, a form of the income approach. an impairment is measured and recognized based on the amount the book value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeds its estimated fair value as of the date of the impairment test. included in the impairment test are assumptions, for each trade name, regarding the related revenue streams attributable to the trade names which are determined consistent with the forecasting process described above, the royalty rate, and the discount rate applied. based on the company indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment analysis performed during the second quarter of 2009, the company incurred an impairment charge of $147 million in the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment related to a partial impairment of the company grant prideco trade name. the impairment charge was primarily the result of the substantial decline in worldwide rig counts through june 2009, declines in forecasts in rig activity for the remainder of 2009, 2010, and 2011 compared to rig count forecast at the beginning of 2009 and a decline in the revenue forecast for the drill pipe business unit for the remainder of 2009, 2010, and 2011. during the fourth quarter of 2009, the company further updated its impairment testing using current operating forecasts and discounted cash flows. in the third and fourth quarters of 2009, both rig activity and commodity prices began to increase. rig count increased 4% to an average of 2,130 in the third quarter and increased another 13% to an average of 2,397 in the fourth quarter. average west texas intermediate crude prices reached $76.06 in the fourth quarter of 2009, an increase of 28% from an average of $59.44 in the second quarter of 2009. in addition, by the end of the fourth quarter, average natural gas prices increased to $4.34, a 17% increase from the second quarter 2009 average of $3.71. the company performed its annual impairment analysis for its goodwill and indefinite-lived assets during the fourth quarter of 2010 and 2011 resulting in no impairment. the valuation techniques used in the annual test were consistent with those used during previous testing. the inputs used in the annual test were updated for current market conditions and forecasts. 49 index to financial statements along with the normal impairment analysis, the company performed a sensitivity analysis on the projected results, the goodwill and the other indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment analysis assuming revenue for each individual reporting unit for goodwill and each individual indefinite-lived intangible asset decreased an additional 20% from the current projections for 2012 and 2013, while holding all other factors constant and no impairment was identified. additionally, if the company were to increase its discount rate 100 basis points, while keeping all other assumptions constant, there would be no impairments in any of the goodwill associated with the company reporting units or any of the company indefinite-lived intangible assets. while the company does not believe that these events (20% drop in additional revenue for the next three years or 100 basis point increases in weighted average costs of capital) or changes are likely to occur, it is reasonably possible these events could transpire if market conditions worsen and if the market fails to continue to recover in 2012. any significant changes to these assumptions and factors could have a material impact on the company goodwill impairment analysis. service and product warranties the company provides service and warranty policies on certain of its products. the company accrues liabilities under service and warranty policies based upon specific claims and a review of historical warranty and service claim experience in accordance with asc topic 450 contingencies ( asc topic 450 ). adjustments are made to accruals as claim data and historical experience change. in addition, the company incurs discretionary costs to service its products in connection with product performance issues and accrues for them when they are encountered. at december 31, 2011 and 2010, service and product warranties totaled $211 million and $215 million, respectively. income taxes the company is a u.s. registered company and is subject to income taxes in the u.s. the company operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. income taxes have been provided based upon the tax laws and rates of the countries in which the company operates and income is earned. the company annual tax provision is based on taxable income, statutory rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. the determination and evaluation of the annual tax provision and tax positions involves the interpretation of the tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which the company operates. it requires significant judgment and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events such as the amount, timing and character of income, deductions and tax credits. changes in tax laws, regulations, and treaties, foreign currency exchange restrictions or the company level of operations or profitability in each jurisdiction could impact the tax liability in any given year. the company also operates in many jurisdictions where the tax laws relating to the pricing of transactions between related parties are open to interpretation, which could potentially result in aggressive tax authorities asserting additional tax liabilities with no offsetting tax recovery in other countries. the company maintains liabilities for estimated tax exposures in jurisdictions of operation. the annual tax provision includes the impact of income tax provisions and benefits for changes to liabilities that the company considers appropriate, as well as related interest. tax exposure items primarily include potential challenges to intercompany pricing and certain operating expenses that may not be deductible in foreign jurisdictions. these exposures are resolved primarily through the settlement of audits within these tax jurisdictions or by judicial means. the company is subject to audits by federal, state and foreign jurisdictions which may result in proposed assessments. the company believes that an appropriate liability has been established for estimated exposures under the guidance in asc topic 740 income taxes ( asc topic 740 ). however, actual results may differ materially from these estimates. the company reviews these liabilities quarterly and to the extent audits or other events result in an adjustment to the liability accrued for a prior year, the effect will be recognized in the period of the event. the company currently has recorded valuation allowances that the company intends to maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. income tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in the company valuation allowances. the realization of remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that the company record an additional valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. an increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on future earnings. the company has not provided for deferred taxes on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries that are permanently reinvested. should the company make a distribution from the unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries, the company may be required to record additional taxes. unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries were $3,789 million and $2,503 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the company makes a determination each period whether to permanently reinvest these earnings. if, as a result of these reassessments, the company distributes these earnings in the future, additional tax liabilities would result, offset by any available foreign tax credits. 50 index to financial statements recently issued accounting standards in may 2011, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued accounting standards update ( asu ) no. 2011-04, amendments to achieve common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in u.s. gaap and ifrss ( asu no. 2011-04 ), which provides guidance about how fair value should be applied where it is already required or permitted under u.s. gaap. the asu does not extend the use of fair value or require additional fair value measurements, but rather provides explanations about how to measure fair value. asu no. 2011-04 requires prospective application and will be effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after december 15, 2011. the company is currently assessing the impact asu no. 2011-04 will have on its financial statements, but does not expect a significant impact from adoption of the pronouncement. in june 2011, the fasb issued asu no. 2011-05 presentation of comprehensive income ( asu no. 2011-05 ), which eliminates the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in equity and requires that all nonowner changes in equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. asu no. 2011-05 requires retrospective application. the company early adopted asu no. 2011-05 and added the consolidated statements of comprehensive income retrospectively for all reporting periods presented. in september 2011, the fasb issued asu no. 2011-8 intangibles goodwill and other ( asu no. 2011-08 ), which amends its guidance on the testing of goodwill for impairment allowing entities to perform a qualitative assessment on goodwill impairment to determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. this guidance is effective for goodwill impairment tests performed in interim and annual periods for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. the company is currently assessing the impact asu no. 2011-08 will have on its financial statements, but does not expect a significant impact from adoption of the pronouncement. in december 2011, the fasb issued asu no. 2011-11 balance sheet disclosures about offsetting assets and liabilities (asu no. 2011-11 ), which requires an entity to disclose both gross and net information about financial instruments, such as sales and repurchase agreements and reverse sale and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing/lending arrangements, and derivative instruments that are eligible for offset in the statement of financial position and/or subject to a master netting arrangement or similar agreement. asu no. 2011-11 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning on january 1, 2013. the company is currently assessing the impact asu no. 2011-11 will have on its financial statements, but does not expect a significant impact from adoption of the pronouncement. in december 2011, the fasb issued asu no. 2011-12 comprehensive income deferral of the effective date for amendments to the presentation of reclassifications of items out of accumulated other comprehensive income in accounting standards update no. 2011-05 ( asu no. 2011-12 ), which defers changes in asu no. 2011-05 that relate to the presentation of reclassification adjustments to allow the fasb time to redeliberate whether to require presentation of such adjustments on the face of the financial statements to show the effects of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the components of net income and other comprehensive income. asu no. 2011-12 allows entities to continue to report reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income consistent with the presentation requirements in effect before asu no. 2011-05. all other requirements in asu no. 2011-05 are not affected by asu no. 2011-12. asu no. 2011-12 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after december 15, 2011. the company is currently assessing the impact asu no. 2011-12 will have on its financial statements, but does not expect a significant impact from adoption of the pronouncement. forward looking statements some of the information in this document contains, or has incorporated by reference, forward-looking statements. statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements typically are identified by use of terms such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate, and similar words, although some forward-looking statements are expressed differently. all statements herein regarding expected merger synergies are forward looking statements. you should be aware that our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including but not limited to changes in oil and gas prices, customer demand for our products and worldwide economic activity. you should also consider carefully the statements under risk factors which address additional factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. given these uncertainties, current or prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to update any such factors or forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. 51 index to financial statements item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have extensive operations in foreign countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the company reported foreign currency losses of $10 million, $30 million and $79 million, respectively. gains and losses are primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency and adjustments to our hedged positions as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. strengthening of currencies against the u.s. dollar may create losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the countries using the local currency as their functional currency. some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. similarly some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated u.s. dollar costs, which also give rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. the following table details the company foreign currency exchange risk grouped by functional currency and their expected maturity periods as of december 31, 2011 (in millions except for rates): as of december 31, 2011 december 31, functional currency 2012 2013 2014 total 2010 cad buy usd/sell cad: notional amount to buy (in canadian dollars) 274 274 267 average usd to cad contract rate 1.0315 1.0315 1.0072 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars (3 ) (3 ) (1 ) sell usd/buy cad: notional amount to sell (in canadian dollars) 157 82 239 55 average usd to cad contract rate 1.0095 1.0395 1.0196 1.0237 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars (2 ) 1 (1 ) 1 eur buy usd/sell eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 10 10 1 average usd to eur contract rate 1.4035 1.4035 1.3884 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars 1 1 sell usd/buy eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 105 15 120 74 average usd to eur contract rate 1.3888 1.3554 1.3846 1.3172 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars (10 ) (1 ) (11 ) 1 krw buy usd/sell krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 124 261 385 average usd to krw contract rate 923.7000 918.8186 920.3811 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 53,128 639 58 53,825 67,657 average usd to krw contract rate 1,153.6186 1,020.2488 940.5000 1,151.5509 1,085.6800 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars (3 ) sell eur/buy krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 273 average eur to krw contract rate 1,742.5300 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars 52 index to financial statements as of december 31, 2011 december 31, functional currency 2012 2013 2014 total 2010 gbp buy usd/sell gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 45 45 average usd to gbp contract rate 1.5499 1.5499 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 42 2 44 49 average usd to gbp contract rate 1.5821 1.5770 1.5818 1.4952 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars (2 ) (2 ) 2 usd buy dkk/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 27 27 19 average dkk to usd contract rate 5.4213 5.4213 5.5064 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) buy eur/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 636 74 710 224 average eur to usd contract rate 1.3796 1.3669 1.3783 1.3243 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars (37 ) (3 ) (40 ) buy gbp/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 15 15 18 average gbp to usd contract rate 1.5737 1.5737 1.5724 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars buy nok/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 964 372 1,336 810 average nok to usd contract rate 5.9359 5.9602 5.9427 6.2022 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars (14 ) (8 ) (22 ) 32 buy sgd/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 10 10 average sgd to usd contract rate 1.3022 1.3022 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 3 3 8 average dkk to usd contract rate 5.5036 5.5036 5.5998 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars sell eur/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 135 2 137 66 average eur to usd contract rate 1.3509 1.4019 1.3517 1.3423 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars 5 5 1 sell nok/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 172 1 173 229 average nok to usd contract rate 5.8168 5.9030 5.8173 6.1282 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars 6 6 (7 ) sell sgd/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 2 2 average sgd to usd contract rate 0.7674 0.7674 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars sell rub/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 24 24 25 average rub to usd contract rate 32.7613 32.7613 31.2030 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars (1 ) dkk sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 96 96 113 average dkk to usd contract rate 5.67 5.6717 5.6618 fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars other currencies fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (1 ) total fair value at december 31, 2011 in u.s. dollars (58 ) (12 ) (70 ) 24 53 index to financial statements the company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies for transactional exposures totaling $311 million and translation exposures totaling $597 million as of december 31, 2011 excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on the transactional exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect net income by $20 million and the transactional exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect the future fair value by $60 million. the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. during the first quarter of 2010, the venezuelan government officially devalued the venezuelan bolivar against the u.s. dollar. as a result the company converted its venezuela ledgers to u.s. dollar functional currency, devalued monetary assets resulting in a $27 million charge, and wrote-down certain accounts receivable in view of deteriorating business conditions in venezuela, resulting in an additional $11 million charge. the company net investment in venezuela was $27 million at december 31, 2011. interest rate risk at december 31, 2011 our long term borrowings consisted of $200 million in 5.65% senior notes, $150 million in 5.5% senior notes and $151 million in 6.125% senior notes. we occasionally have borrowings under our credit facility, and a portion of these borrowings could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either libor, nibor or euribor, or at the prime interest rate. under our credit facility, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or euribor for 30 days to six months.risk factors and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview of oil and gas well drilling and servicing processes oil and gas wells are usually drilled by drilling contractors using a drilling rig. a bit is attached to the end of a drill stem, which is assembled by the drilling rig and its crew from 30-foot joints of drill pipe and specialized drilling components known as downhole tools. using the conventional rotary drilling method, the drill stem is turned from the rotary table of the drilling rig by torque applied to the kelly, which is screwed into the top of the drill stem. increasingly, drilling is performed using a drilling motor, which is attached to the bottom of the drill stem and provides rotational force directly to the bit, and a top drive, a device suspended from the derrick that turns the entire drill stem, rather than such force being supplied by the rotary table. the use of drilling motors and top drives permits the drilling contractor to drill directionally, including horizontally. the company sells and rents drilling motors, drill bits, downhole tools and drill pipe through its petroleum services &amp; supplies segment and sells and rents top drives through its rig technology segment. during drilling, heavy drilling fluids or drilling muds are pumped down the drill stem and forced out through jets in the bit. the drilling mud returns to the surface through the space between the borehole wall and the drill stem, carrying with it the drill cuttings drilled out by the bit. the drill cuttings are removed from the mud by a solids control system (which can include shakers, centrifuges and other specialized equipment) and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. the solids control system permits the mud, which is often comprised of expensive chemicals, to be continuously reused and re-circulated back into the hole. through its rig technology segment, the company sells the large mud pumps that are used to pump drilling mud through the drill stem. through its petroleum services &amp; supplies segment, the company sells transfer pumps and mud pump consumables; sells and rents solids control equipment; and provides solids control, waste management and drilling fluids services. many operators internally coat the drill stem to improve its hydraulic efficiency and protect it from corrosive fluids sometimes encountered during drilling, and inspect and assess the integrity of the drill pipe from time to time. the company provides drill pipe inspection and coating services, and applies hardbanding material to drill pipe to improve its wear characteristics. these services are provided through the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment. additionally, the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment manufactures and sells drill pipe. 4 table of contents as the hole depth increases, the kelly must be removed frequently so that additional 30-foot joints of drill pipe can be added to the drill stem. when the bit becomes dull or the equipment at the bottom of the drill stem including the drilling motors otherwise requires servicing, the entire drill stem is pulled out of the hole and disassembled by disconnecting the joints of drill pipe. these are set aside or racked, the old bit is replaced or service is performed, and the drill stem is reassembled and lowered back into the hole (a process called tripping ). during drilling and tripping operations, joints of drill pipe must be screwed together and tightened ( made up ), and loosened and unscrewed ( spun out ). the rig technology segment provides drilling equipment to manipulate and maneuver the drill pipe in this manner. when the hole has reached certain depths, all of the drill pipe is pulled out of the hole and larger diameter pipe known as casing is lowered into the hole and permanently cemented in place in order to protect against collapse and contamination of the hole. the casing is typically inspected before it is lowered into the hole, a service the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment provides. the rig technology segment manufactures pressure pumping equipment that is used to cement the casing in place. the raising and lowering of the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and the lowering of casing into the wellbore, is accomplished with the rig hoisting system. a conventional hoisting system is a block and tackle mechanism that works within the drilling rig derrick. the lifting of this mechanism is performed via a series of pulleys that are attached to the drawworks at the base of the derrick. the rig technology segment sells and installs drawworks and pipe hoisting systems. during the course of normal drilling operations, the drill stem passes through different geological formations, which exhibit varying pressure characteristics. if this pressure is not contained, oil, gas and/or water would flow out of these formations to the surface. the two means of containing these reservoir pressures are (i) primarily the circulation of drilling muds while drilling and (ii) secondarily the use of blowout preventers ( bops ) should the mud prove inadequate in an emergency situation. the rig technology segment sells and services blowout preventers. drilling muds are carefully designed to exhibit certain qualities that optimize the drilling process. in addition to containing formation pressure, they must (i) provide power to the drilling motor, (ii) carry drilled solids to the surface, (iii) protect the drilled formations from being damaged, and (iv) cool the drill bit. achieving these objectives often requires a formulation specific to a given well and can involve the use of expensive chemicals as well as natural materials, such as certain types of clay. the fluid itself is often oil or more expensive synthetic mud. given this expense, it is highly desirable to reuse as much of the drilling mud as possible. solids control equipment such as shale shakers, centrifuges, cuttings dryers, and mud cleaners help accomplish this objective. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment rents, sells, operates and services this equipment. drilling muds are formulated based on expected drilling conditions. however, as the hole is drilled, the drill stem may encounter a high pressure zone where the mud density is inadequate to maintain sufficient pressure. should efforts to weight up the mud in order to contain such a pressure kick fail, a blowout could result, whereby reservoir fluids would flow uncontrolled into the well. to prevent blowouts to the surface of the well, a series of high-pressure valves known as blowout preventers are positioned at the top of the well and, when activated, form tight seals that prevent the escape of fluids. when closed, conventional bops prevent normal rig operations. therefore, the bops are activated only if drilling mud and normal well control procedures cannot safely contain the pressure. the operations of the rig and the condition of the drilling mud are closely monitored by various sensors, which measure operating parameters such as the weight on the rig hook, the incidence of pressure kicks, the operation of the drilling mud pumps, etc. through its rig technology segment, the company sells and rents drilling rig instrumentation packages that perform these monitoring functions. during the drilling and completion of a well, there exists an ongoing need for various consumables and spare parts. while most of these items are small, in the aggregate they represent an important element of the process. since it is impractical for each drilling location to have a full supply of these items, drilling contractors and well service companies tend to rely on third parties to stock and deliver these items. the company provides this capability through its distribution &amp; transmission segment, which stocks and sells spares and consumables made by third parties, as well as spares and consumables made by the company. after the well has reached its total depth and the final section of casing has been set, the drilling rig is moved off of the well and the well is prepared to begin producing oil or gas in a process known as well completion. well completion usually involves installing production tubing concentrically in the casing. due to the corrosive nature of many produced fluids, production tubing is often inspected and coated, services offered by the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment. sometimes operators choose to use corrosion resistant composite materials, which the company also offers through its petroleum services &amp; supplies segment, or corrosion-resistant alloys, or operators sometimes pump fluids into wells to inhibit corrosion. from time to time, a producing well may undergo workover procedures to extend its life and increase its production rate. workover rigs are used to disassemble the wellhead, tubing and other completion components of an existing well in order to stimulate or remediate the well. workover rigs are similar to drilling rigs in their capabilities to handle tubing, but are usually smaller and somewhat less sophisticated. the company offers a comprehensive range of workover rigs through its rig technology segment. tubing and sucker rods removed from a well during a well remediation operation are often inspected to determine their suitability to be reused in the well, which is a service the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment provides. 5 table of contents frequently, coiled tubing units or wireline units are used to accomplish certain well remediation operations or well completions. coiled tubing is a recent advancement in petroleum technology consisting of a continuous length of reeled steel tubing which can be injected concentrically into the production tubing all the way to the bottom of most wells. it permits many operations to be performed without disassembling the production tubing, and without curtailing the production of the well. wireline winch units are devices that utilize single-strand or multi-strand wires to perform well remediation operations, such as lowering tools and transmitting data to the surface. through the rig technology segment, the company sells and rents various types of coiled tubing equipment and wireline equipment and tools. the company also manufactures and sells coiled tubing pipe through its petroleum services &amp; supplies segment. rig technology the company has a long tradition of pioneering innovations in drilling and well servicing equipment which improve the efficiency, safety, and cost of drilling and well servicing operations. the rig technology segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of top drives, automated pipe handling systems, motion compensation systems, rig controls, bops, handling tools, drawworks, risers, rotary tables, mud pumps, cranes, drilling motors, turret mooring systems and other products for fpsos and other offshore vessels and terminals, and other drilling equipment for both the onshore and offshore markets. rig technology also manufactures entire rig packages, both drilling and workover, in addition to well servicing equipment such as coiled tubing units, pressure pumping equipment, and wireline winches. the rig technology segment sells directly to drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. rig technology rents and sells proprietary drilling rig instrumentation packages and control systems which monitor various processes throughout the drilling operation, under the name md &reg; /totco &reg; ( instrumentation ). demand for its products, several of which are described below, is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. land rig packages . the company designs, manufactures, assembles, upgrades, and supplies equipment sets to a variety of land drilling rigs, including those specifically designed to operate in harsh environments such as the arctic circle and the desert. our key land rig product names include the drake rig, ideal rig and rapid rig &reg; . the company recent rig packages are designed to be safer and fast moving, to utilize ac technology, and to reduce manpower required to operate a rig. top drives . the top drive drilling system ( tds ), originally introduced by the company in 1982, significantly alters the traditional drilling process. the tds rotates the drill stem from its top, rather than by the rotary table, with a large electric motor affixed to rails installed in the derrick that traverses the length of the derrick to the rig floor. therefore, the tds eliminates the use of the conventional rotary table for drilling. components of the tds also are used to connect additional joints of drill pipe to the drill stem during drilling operations, enabling drilling with three joints of drill pipe compared to traditionally drilling with one joint of drill pipe. additionally, the tds facilitates horizontal and extended reach drilling. electric rig motors. the company has helped lead the application of ac motor technology in the oilfield industry. the company buys motors from third parties and builds them in its own facilities and is further developing motor technology, including the introduction of permanent magnet motor technology to the industry. these permanent magnet motors are being used in top drives, cranes, mud pumps, winches, and drawworks. rotary equipment . the alternative to using a tds to rotate the drill stem is to use a rotary table, which rotates the pipe at the floor of the rig. rig technology produces rotary tables as well as kelly bushings and master bushings for most sizes of kellys and makes of rotary tables. in 1998, the company introduced the rotary support table for use on rigs with a tds. the rotary support table is used in concert with the tds to completely eliminate the need for the larger conventional rotary table. pipe handling systems . pipe racking systems are used to handle drill pipe, casing and tubing on a drilling rig. vertical pipe racking systems move drill pipe and casing between the well and a storage ( racking ) area on the rig floor. horizontal racking systems are used to handle tubulars while stored horizontally (for example, on the pipe deck of an offshore rig) and transport tubulars up to the rig floor and into a vertical position for use in the drilling process. vertical pipe racking systems are used predominantly on offshore rigs and are found on almost all floating rigs. mechanical vertical pipe racking systems greatly reduce the manual effort involved in pipe handling. pipe racking systems, introduced by the company in 1985, provide a fully automated mechanism for handling and racking drill pipe during drilling and tripping operations, spinning and torquing drill pipe, and automatic hoisting and racking of disconnected joints of drill pipe. these functions can be integrated via computer controlled sequencing, and operated by a driller in an environmentally secure cabin. an important element of this system is the iron roughneck, which was originally introduced by the company in 1976 and is an automated device that makes pipe connections on the rig floor and requires less direct involvement of rig floor personnel in potentially dangerous operations. the automated roughneck is an automated microprocessor-controlled version of the iron roughneck. 6 table of contents horizontal pipe transfer systems were introduced by the company in 1993. they include the pipe deck machine ( pdm ), which is used to manipulate and move tubulars while stored in a horizontal position; the pipe transfer conveyor ( ptc ), which transports sections of pipe to the rig floor; and a pickup laydown system ( pls ), which raises the pipe to a vertical position for transfer to a vertical racking system. these components may be employed separately, or incorporated together to form a complete horizontal racking system, known as the pipe transfer system ( pts ). pipe handling tools . the company pipe handling tools are designed to enhance the safety, efficiency and reliability of pipe handling operations. many of these tools have provided innovative methods of performing the designated task through mechanization of functions previously performed manually. the rig technology segment manufactures various tools used to grip, hold, raise, and lower pipe, and in the making up and breaking out of drill pipe, workstrings, casing and production tubulars including spinning wrenches, manual tongs, torque wrenches and kelly spinners. mud pumps. mud pumps are high pressure pumps located on the rig that force drilling mud down the drill pipe, through the drill bit, and up the space between the drill pipe and the drilled formation (the annulus ) back to the surface. these pumps, which generate pressures of up to 7,500 psi, must therefore be capable of displacing drilling fluids several thousand feet down and back up the well bore. the conventional mud pump design, known as the triplex pump, uses three reciprocating pistons oriented horizontally. the company has introduced the hex pump, which uses six pumping cylinders, versus the three used in the triplex pump. along with other design features, the greater number of cylinders reduces pulsations (or surges) and increases the output available from a given footprint. reduced pulsation is desirable where downhole measurement equipment is being used during the drilling process, as is often the case in directional drilling. hoisting systems . hoisting systems are used to raise or lower the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and to lower casing into the wellbore. the drawworks is the heart of the hoisting system. it is a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line, which is in turn connected to the drill stem at the top of the derrick. the drawworks also plays an important role in keeping the weight on the drill bit at a desired level. this task is particularly challenging on offshore drilling rigs, which are subject to wave motion. to address this, the company has introduced the active heave drilling ( ahd ) drawworks. the ahd drawworks uses computer-controlled motors to compensate for the motion experienced in offshore drilling operations. cranes. the company provides a comprehensive range of crane solutions, with purpose-built products for all segments of the oil and gas industry as well as many other markets. the company encompasses a broad collection of brand names with international recognition, and includes a large staff of engineers specializing in the design of cranes and related equipment. the product range extends from small cargo-handling cranes to the world largest marine cranes. in all, the company provides over twenty crane product lines that include standard model configurations as well as custom-engineered and specialty cranes. motion compensation systems . traditionally, motion compensation equipment is located on top of the drilling rig and serves to stabilize the bit on the bottom of the hole, increasing drilling effectiveness of floating offshore rigs by compensating for wave and wind action. the ahd drawworks, discussed above, was introduced to eliminate weight and improve safety, removing the compensator from the top of the rig and integrating it into the drawworks system. in addition to the ahd drawworks, the company has introduced an active heave compensation ( ahc ) system that goes beyond the capabilities of the ahd drawworks to handle the most severe weather. additionally, the company tensioning systems provide continuous axial tension to the marine riser pipe (larger diameter pipe which connects floating drilling rigs to the well on the ocean floor) and guide lines on floating drilling rigs, tension leg platforms and jack-up drilling rigs. blowout preventers . bops are devices used to seal the space between the drill pipe and the borehole to prevent blowouts (uncontrolled flows of formation fluids and gases to the surface). the rig technology segment manufactures a wide array of bops used in various situations. ram and annular bops are back-up devices that are activated only if other techniques for controlling pressure in the wellbore are inadequate. when closed, these devices prevent normal rig operations. ram bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing rams (thick heavy blocks of steel) against each other across the wellbore. specially designed packers seal around specific sizes of pipe in the wellbore, shear pipe in the wellbore or close off an open hole. annular bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing a rubber packing unit around the drill pipe or kelly or by sealing against itself if nothing is in the hole. the company pressure control while drilling ( pcwd ) &reg; bop, introduced in 1995, allows operators to drill at pressures up to 2,000 psi without interrupting normal operations, and can act as a normal spherical bop at pressures up to 5,000 psi. in 1998, the company introduced the nxt &reg; ram type bop which eliminates door bolts, providing significant weight, rig-time, and space savings. its unique features make subsea operation more efficient through faster ram configuration changes without tripping the bop stack. in 2004, the company introduced the lxt, which features many of the design elements of the nxt &reg; , but is targeted at the land market. in 2005, the company began commercializing technology related to a continuous circulation device. this device enables drilling contractors to make and break drill pipe connections without stopping the circulation of drilling fluids, which helps increase drilling efficiency. 7 table of contents the shearmax tm line of low force bop shear rams released in 2010 add substantial tubular shearing capability to the company line of pressure control equipment, including the capability to shear large drill pipe tool joints, previously unheard of in the industry. this innovative shear blade design utilizes patented puncture technology to reduce the shearing pressures 50% or more and in some cases as much as five times lower. the shearmax tm blind shear provides a shear-and-seal design for drill pipe, while the casing and tjc shears address casing up to 16 od and most tool joints up to 2 wall thickness, respectively. derricks and substructures. drilling activities are carried out from a drilling rig. a drilling rig consists of one or two derricks; the substructure that supports the derrick(s); and the rig package, which consists of the various pieces of equipment discussed above. rig technology designs, fabricates and services derricks used in both onshore and offshore applications, and substructures used in onshore applications. the rig technology segment also works with shipyards in the fabrication of substructures for offshore drilling rigs. instrumentation . the company instrumentation business provides drilling rig operators real time measurement and monitoring of critical parameters required to improve rig safety and efficiency. in 1999, the company introduced its rigsense &reg; wellsite information system, which combines leading hardware and software technologies into an integrated drilling rig package. access of drilling data is provided to offsite locations, enabling company personnel to monitor drilling operations from an office environment, through a secure link. systems are both sold and rented, and are comprised of hazardous area sensors placed throughout the rig to measure critical drilling parameters; all networked back to a central command station for review, recording and interpretation. the company offers unique business integration services to directly integrate information into business applications that improves accuracy and assists drilling contractors in managing their drilling business. reports on drilling activities and processes are now provided from the rig site as a part of the drillsuite business solution to allow contractors to streamline administration by eliminating manual entry of data, promotes accurate payroll processing and invoicing, and includes asset tracking and preventive maintenance management through its rigms solution. the real time information provided also allows the company to advance the drilling process using advanced drilling algorithms and electronic controls such as our wildcat auto drilling system for better execution of the well plan, enhanced rates of penetration, reduced program costs, and improved wellbore quality. complementing the company surface solutions is a portfolio of down-hole instrumentation ( dhi ) products for both straight-hole and directional markets. key advancements in this area include the introduction of the company time saving etotco electronic drift recorder, which serves as an electronic equivalent to the traditional mechanical drift tool that the company has offered since 1929. coiled tubing equipment . coiled tubing consists of flexible steel tubing manufactured in a continuous string and spooled on a reel. it can extend several thousand feet in length and is run in and out of the wellbore at a high rate of speed by a hydraulically operated coiled tubing unit. a coiled tubing unit is typically mounted on a truck, semi-trailer or skid (steel frames on which portable equipment is mounted to facilitate handling with cranes for offshore use) and consists of a hydraulically operated tubing reel or drum, an injector head which pushes or pulls the tubing in or out of the wellbore, and various power and control systems. coiled tubing is typically used with sophisticated pressure control equipment which permits the operator to perform workover operations on a live well. the rig technology segment manufactures and sells both coiled tubing units and the ancillary pressure control equipment used in these operations. through its acquisition of rolligon in late 2006, the company enhanced its portfolio by adding additional pressure pumping and coiled tubing equipment products. currently, most coiled tubing units are used in well remediation and completion applications. the company believes that advances in the manufacturing process of coiled tubing, tubing fatigue protection and the capability to manufacture larger diameter and increased wall thickness coiled tubing strings have resulted in increased uses and applications for coiled tubing products. for example, some well operators are now using coiled tubing in drilling applications such as slim hole re-entries of existing wells. the company engineered and manufactured the first coiled tubing units built specifically for coiled tubing drilling in 1996. generally, the rig technology segment supplies customers with the equipment and components necessary to use coiled tubing, which the customers typically purchase separately. the rig technology segment coiled tubing product line consists of coiled tubing units, coiled tubing pressure control equipment, pressure pumping equipment, snubbing units (which are units that force tubulars into a well when pressure is contained within the wellbore), nitrogen pumping equipment and cementing, stimulation, fracturing and blending equipment. wireline equipment . the company wireline products include wireline drum units, which consist of a spool or drum of wireline cable, mounted in a mobile vehicle or skid, which works in conjunction with a source of power (an engine mounted in the vehicle or within a separate power pack skid). the wireline drum unit is used to spool wireline cable into or out of a well, in order to perform surveys inside the well, sample fluids from the bottom of the well, retrieve or replace components from inside the well, or to perform other well remediation or survey operations. the wireline used may be slick line , which is conventional single-strand steel cable used to convey tools in or out of the well, or electric line , which contains an imbedded single-conductor or multi-conductor electrical line which permits communication between the surface and electronic instruments attached to the end of the wireline at the bottom of the well. 8 table of contents wireline units are usually used in conjunction with a variety of other pressure control equipment which permit safe access into wells while they are flowing and under pressure at the surface. the company engineers and manufactures a broad range of pressure control equipment for wireline operations, including wireline blowout preventers, strippers, packers, lubricators and grease injection units. additionally, the company makes wireline rigging equipment such as mast trucks. stimulation equipment . the company stimulation products include fracturing pumps, acid units, frac blenders, combo units, hydration, chemical additive systems as well as services and parts. the company acquired enerflow industries, inc. ( enerflow ) in may 2012. enerflow operates out of facilities in calgary, ab, tulsa, ok and houston, tx. enerflow produces frac pumpers (including truck, trailer, and skid mounted units) as well as cementing units, acidizing units, nitrogen units, and small amounts of well servicing rigs, integrated mud systems and coiled tubing equipment. turret mooring systems. the company acquired advanced production and loading plc ( apl ), in december 2010. apl, based in norway, designs and manufactures turret mooring systems and other products for fpsos and other offshore vessels and terminals. a turret mooring system consists of a geostatic part attached to the seabed and a rotating part integrated in the hull of the fpso, which are connected and allow the ship to weathervane (rotate) around the turret. flexible pipe systems. the company acquired nkt flexibles i/s ( nkt ) in april 2012. nkt designs and manufactures flexible pipe products and systems for the offshore oil and gas industry, including products associated with fpso and other offshore vessels, as well as subsea production systems including flow-lines and flexible risers. facilities. the company rig technology segment conducts manufacturing operations at major facilities in houston, galena park, sugar land, conroe, cedar park, anderson, fort worth and pampa, texas; duncan, oklahoma; orange, california; edmonton, canada; aberdeen, scotland; kristiansand, stavanger and arendal, norway; etten-leur and groot-ammers, the netherlands; carquefou, france; singapore; lanzhou and shanghai, china; dubai, uae; and ulsan, south korea. for a more detailed listing of significant facilities see item 2. properties . the rig technology segment maintains sales and service offices in most major oilfield markets, either directly or through agents. customers and competition. rig technology sells directly to drilling contractors, other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumping companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. the products of the rig technology segment are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or improved availability and delivery. the segment primary competitors are aker solutions as; american block; bomco; canrig (a division of nabors industries); cavins oil tools; cameron; dencon oil tools; forum oilfield technologies; general electric; hitec drilling products; hong hua; huisman; global energy services; m&amp;i electric; tesco corporation; stewart &amp; stevenson, inc.; huntings, ltd.; vanoil; parveen industries; soilmec; tts sense; omron; bentec; blohm; voss; liebher; seatrax; mcgregor; rolls royce and weatherford international, inc. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting its rig technology segment are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of products, spare parts, and consumables, breadth of product line and price. petroleum services &amp; supplies the company provides a broad range of support equipment, spare parts, consumables and services through the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment. petroleum services &amp; supplies segment sells directly and provides a variety of tubular services, composite tubing, and coiled tubing to oil and gas producers, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, and tubular processors, manufacturers and distributors. these include inspection and reclamation services for drill pipe, casing, production tubing, sucker rods and line pipe at drilling and workover rig locations, at yards owned by its customers, at steel mills and processing facilities that manufacture tubular goods, and at facilities which it owns. the company also provides internal coating of tubular goods at several coating plants worldwide and through licensees in certain locations. additionally, the company designs, manufactures and sells high pressure fiberglass and composite tubulars for use in corrosive applications and coiled tubing for use in well servicing applications and connections for large diameter conductor pipe. the company customers rely on tubular inspection services to avoid failure of tubing, casing, flowlines, pipelines and drill pipe. such tubular failures are expensive and in some cases catastrophic. the company customers rely on internal coatings of tubular goods to prolong the useful lives of tubulars and to increase the volumetric throughput of in-service tubular goods. the company customers sometimes use fiberglass or composite tubulars in lieu of conventional steel tubulars, due to the corrosion-resistant properties of fiberglass and other composite materials. tubular inspection and coating services are used most frequently in operations in high-temperature, deep, corrosive oil and gas environments. in selecting a provider of tubular inspection and tubular coating services, oil and gas operators consider such factors as reputation, experience, technology of products offered, reliability and price. 9 table of contents the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment also provides products and services that are used in the course of drilling oil and gas wells. the nov downhole business sells and rents bits, drilling motors and specialized downhole tools that are incorporated into the drill stem during drilling operations, and are also used during fishing, well intervention, re-entry, and well completion operations. the wellsite services business provides products and services such as drilling fluids, highly-engineered solids control equipment, waste handling and treatment, completion fluids, power generation equipment, and other ancillary well site equipment and services. wellsite services is also engaged in barium sulfate ( barite ) mining operations in the state of nevada. barite is an inert powder material used as the primary weighting agent in drilling fluids. additionally, efficient separation of drill cuttings enables the re-use of often costly drilling fluids. the pumps &amp; expendables business provides centrifugal, reciprocating, and progressing cavity pumps and pump expendables ( pumps &amp; expendables ) into the global oil and gas and industrial markets. solids control and waste management . the company is engaged in the provision of highly-engineered equipment, products and services which separate and manage drill cuttings produced by the drilling process ( solids control ). drill cuttings are usually contaminated with petroleum or drilling fluids, and must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. fluids services. the company acquired the spirit group of companies in may 2009 ( spirit ) and ambar in january 2010. both are engaged in the provision of drilling fluids, completion fluids and other related services. this division is also engaged in barite mining operations. drilling fluids are designed and used to maintain well bore stability while drilling, control downhole pressure, drill bit lubrication, and as a drill cuttings displacement medium. completion fluids are used to clean the well bore and stimulate production. portable power. the acquisition of welch sales and service, inc. in 2008 placed wellsite services in the power generation and temperature control business. the portable power division provides rental equipment for use in the upstream oil and gas industry, refinery and petrochemical, construction, events, disaster relief and other industries. tubular coating . the company develops, manufactures and applies its proprietary tubular coatings, known as tube-kote &reg; coatings, to new and used tubulars. tubular coatings help prevent corrosion of tubulars by providing a tough plastic shield to isolate steel from corrosive oilfield fluids such as co 2 , h 2 and brine. delaying or preventing corrosion extends the life of existing tubulars, reduces the frequency of well remediation and reduces expensive interruptions in production. in addition, coatings are designed to increase the fluid flow rate through tubulars by decreasing or eliminating paraffin and scale build-up, which can reduce or block oil flow in producing wells. the smooth inner surfaces of coated tubulars often increase the fluid through-put on certain high-rate oil and gas wells by reducing friction and turbulence. the company reputation for supplying quality internal coatings is an important factor in its business, since the failure of coatings can lead to expensive production delays and premature tubular failure. in 2005, the company created a 60%-owned joint venture in china with the huabei petroleum administration bureau, which coats chinese produced drill pipe using the company proprietary coatings. in 2007, the joint venture opened a second coating plant in jiangyin city, china. in addition to the company tk &reg; coatings, it also has complementary corrosion control products and services including tk &reg; liners, tubowrap , and kc-ipc connections. tk liners are fiberglass-reinforced tubes which are inserted into steel line pipe. this safeguards the pipe against corrosion and extends the life of the pipeline. in conjunction with the thru-kote &reg; connection system customers can weld a sleeve for a continuous fiberglass lined pipeline. tubo-wrap is a high performance external coating that protects the pipe during installation and from corrosion once the pipeline is in place. kc-ipc connections use a modified american petroleum institute ( api ) coupling to create a gas-tight seal that prevents corrosion and turbulence in the critical connections of tubulars while protecting the internal plastic coating at the highly loaded contact points. tubular inspection. newly manufactured pipe sometimes contains serious defects that are not detected at the mill. in addition, pipe can be damaged in transit and during handling prior to use at the well site. as a result, exploration and production companies often have new tubulars inspected before they are placed in service to reduce the risk of tubular failures during drilling, completion, or production of oil and gas wells. used tubulars are inspected by the company to detect service-induced flaws after the tubulars are removed from operation. used drill pipe and used tubing inspection programs allow operators to replace defective lengths, thereby prolonging the life of the remaining pipe and saving the customer the cost of unnecessary tubular replacements and expenses related to tubular failures. tubular inspection services employ all major non-destructive inspection techniques, including electromagnetic, ultrasonic, magnetic flux leakage and gamma ray. these inspection services are provided both by mobile units which work at the wellhead as used tubing is removed from a well, and at fixed site tubular inspection locations. the company provides an ultrasonic inspection service for detecting potential fatigue cracks in the end area of used drill pipe, the portion of the pipe that traditionally has been the most difficult to inspect. tubular inspection facilities also offer a wide range of related services, such as api thread inspection, ring and plug gauging, and a complete line of reclamation services necessary to return tubulars to useful service, including tubular cleaning and straightening, hydrostatic testing and re-threading. in addition, the company applies hardbanding material to drill pipe, to enhance its wear characteristics and reduce downhole casing wear as a result of the drilling process. in 2002, the company introduced its proprietary line of hardbanding material, tcs 8000 . the company also cleans, straightens, inspects and coats sucker rods at 11 facilities throughout the western hemisphere. additionally, new sucker rods are inspected before they are placed into service, to avoid premature failure, which can cause the oil well operator to have to pull and replace the sucker rod. 10 table of contents machining services. in 2005, the company acquired turner oilfield services and expanded our product offering into thread repair, tool joint rebuilding and sub manufacturing. since then the company has made strategic acquisitions of hendershot and mid-south and has expanded its machining services internally to develop a one-stop-shop concept for its drill pipe customers. thread repair services include rotary shouldered and premium connections. the company is licensed to perform thread repair services for api and proprietary connections. tool joint rebuilding is a unique process to restore worn drill pipe tool joints, drill collars and heavy weight drill pipe to the original specifications to extend the service life of those assets. the company manufactures downhole tools and is api licensed for this process in several locations. in november 2009, the company acquired south seas inspection (s) pte. ltd., ( ssi ) and certain assets of its brazilian affiliate. ssi provides a wide array of oilfield services including rig and derrick construction, derrick inspection and maintenance, drops surveys and load testing at the rig through the use of rope access technicians. this acquisition adds multiple new services and allows the company to grow this business by leveraging existing relationships and infrastructure. these operations are based out of singapore with branch offices in baku, azerbaijan and aktau, kazkhstan as well as a representative office in vietnam. the highly trained workforce is completely mobile and provides these services worldwide. mill systems and sales. the company engineers and fabricates inspection equipment for steel mills, which it sells and rents. the equipment is used for quality control purposes to detect defects in the pipe during the high-speed manufacturing process. each piece of mill inspection equipment is designed to customer specifications and is installed and serviced by the company. drill pipe products. as a result of its april 2008 acquisition of grant prideco, the company manufactures and sells a variety of drill stem products used for the drilling of oil and gas wells. the principal products sold by drill pipe products are: (i) drill pipe, (ii) drill collars and heavyweight drill pipe and (iii) drill stem accessories including tool joints. drill pipe is the principal tool, other than the rig, required for the drilling of an oil or gas well. its primary purpose is to connect the above-surface drilling rig to the drill bit. a drilling rig will typically have an inventory of 10,000 to 30,000 feet of drill pipe depending on the size and service requirements of the rig. joints of drill pipe are connected to each other with a welded-on tool joint to form what is commonly referred to as the drill string or drill stem. when a drilling rig is operating, motors mounted on the rig rotate the drill pipe and drill bit. in addition to connecting the drilling rig to the drill bit, drill pipe provides a mechanism to steer the drill bit and serves as a conduit for drilling fluids and cuttings. drill pipe is a capital good that can be used for the drilling of multiple wells. once a well is completed, the drill pipe may be used again and again to drill other wells until the drill pipe becomes damaged or wears out. in recent years, the depth and complexity of the wells customers drill, as well as the specifications and requirements of the drill pipe they purchase, have substantially increased. a majority of the drill pipe sold is required to meet specifications exceeding minimum api standards. the company offers a broad line of premium drilling products designed for the offshore, international and domestic drilling markets. the company premium drilling products include its proprietary lines of xt &reg; and turbotorque tm connections and large diameter drill pipe that delivers hydraulic performance superior to standard sizes. drill collars are used in the drilling process to place weight on the drill bit for better control and penetration. drill collars are located directly above the drill bit and are manufactured from a solid steel bar to provide necessary weight. heavyweight drill pipe is a thick-walled seamless tubular product that is less rigid than a drill collar. heavyweight drill pipe provides a gradual transition between the heavier drill collar and the lighter drill pipe. the company also provides subs, pup joints (short and odd-sized tubular products) and other drill stem accessories. these products all perform special functions within the drill string as part of the drilling process. nov intelliserv. nov intelliserv is a joint venture between the company and schlumberger, ltd. in which the company holds a 55% interest and maintains operational control. nov intelliserv provides wellbore data transmission services that enable high-speed communication up and down the drill string throughout drilling and completion operations that are undertaken during the construction of oil and gas wells. nov intelliserv core product, the intelliserv &reg; broadband network , was commercialized in february 2006 and incorporates various proprietary mechanical and electrical components into the company premium drilling tubulars to enable data transmission rates that are currently up to 20,000 times faster than mud pulse, the current industry standard. the intelliserv &reg; broadband network also permits virtually unlimited real-time actuation of drilling tools and sensors at the bottom of the drill string, a process that conventionally requires the time consuming return of tools to the surface. nov intelliserv offers its products and services on a rental basis to oil and gas operators. 11 table of contents voest-alpine tubulars ( vat ) . vat is a joint venture between the company and the austrian based voestalpine group. the company has a 50.01% investment in the joint venture which is located in kindberg, austria. vat owns a tubular mill with an annual capacity of approximately 380,000 metric tons and is the primary supplier of green tubes for our u.s. based production. in addition to producing green tubes, vat produces seamless tubular products for the octg market and non-octg products used in the automotive, petrochemical, construction, mining, tunneling and transportation industries. vat is accounted for under the equity-method of accounting due to the minority owner having substantive participating rights. under a limited partnership operating agreement the company has no rights to unilaterally take any action with respect to its investment and the day to day operations of vat are under the direction of a management board, whose members are determined principally by the minority owner. the management board is responsible for planning, production, sales and general personal matters, which represent substantive participating rights that overcome the presumption that the company should consolidate its 50.01% investment. fiberglass &amp; composite tubulars. when compared to conventional carbon steel and even corrosion-resistant alloys, resin-impregnated fiberglass and other modern plastic composites often exhibit superior resistance to corrosion. some producers manage the corrosive fluids sometimes found in oil and gas fields by utilizing composite or fiberglass tubing, casing and line pipe in the operations of their fields. in 1997, the company acquired fiber glass systems, a leading provider of high pressure fiberglass tubulars used in oilfield applications, to further serve the tubular corrosion prevention needs of its customers. fiber glass systems has manufactured fiberglass pipe since 1968 under the name star &reg; , and was the first manufacturer of high-pressure fiberglass pipe to be licensed by the api in 1992. through further acquisitions and investments in technologies, the company has extended its fiberglass and composite tubing offering into industrial and marine applications, in addition to its oilfield market. in 2011, the company acquired ameron international corporation ( ameron ) which allowed it to expand its fiberglass &amp; composite tubulars business. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding acquisitions made by the company in 2011. ameron fiberglass-composite pipe business, which is now part of the company fiber glass systems business, develops, manufactures and markets filament-wound and molded fiberglass pipe and fittings. these products are used by a wide range of process industries, including industrial, petroleum, chemical processing and petrochemical industries, and for service station piping systems, but predominantly aboard marine vessels, fpsos and offshore oil platforms, and are marketed as an alternative to metallic piping systems which ultimately fail under corrosive operating conditions. in 2012, the company acquired fiberspar corporation ( fiberspar ). see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding acquisitions made by the company in 2012. fiberspar, which is now part of the company fiber glass systems business, manufactures and sells fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe to the oil and gas industry. this fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe provides a reliable, corrosion-resistant, cost-effective solution for tubulars used during the production and transportation of oil and gas. fiberspar has its manufacturing plant in houston, tx, and maintains 17 deployment centers (stocking locations) for its products in the u.s., canada and australia. coiled tubing. coiled tubing provides a number of significant functional advantages over the principal alternatives of conventional drill pipe and workover pipe. coiled tubing allows faster tripping, since the coiled tubing can be reeled quickly on and off a drum and in and out of a wellbore. in addition, the small size of the coiled tubing unit compared to an average workover rig or drilling rig reduces preparation time at the well site. coiled tubing permits a variety of workover and other operations to be performed without having to pull the existing production tubing from the well and allows ease of operation in horizontal or highly deviated wells. thus, operations using coiled tubing can be performed much more quickly and, in many instances, at a significantly lower cost. finally, use of coiled tubing generally allows continuous production of the well, eliminating the need to temporarily stop the flow of hydrocarbons. as a result, the economics of a workover are improved because the well can continue to produce hydrocarbons and thus produce revenues while the well treatments are occurring. continuous production also reduces the risk of formation damage which can occur when the flow of fluids is stopped or isolated. under normal operating conditions, the coiled tubing string must be replaced every three to four months. the company designs, manufactures, and sells coiled tubing under the quality tubing brand name at its mill in houston, texas. nov downhole. the nov downhole business unit combines a wide array of drilling and intervention tool product lines with the drill bit, coring services, borehole enlargement and drilling dynamics/drilling optimization service lines previously consolidated within the reedhycalog business unit of grant prideco. the broad spectrum of bottom hole assembly ( bha ) components offered by nov downhole is unique within the industry and is the result of the company strategic consolidation of several key acquisitions, including: nql energy services, inc., a leading manufacturer and provider of downhole drilling tools; gammaloy holdings, l.p., a manufacturer and provider of non-magnetic drill collars and other related products; and the reedhycalog, corion, and andergauge business units of grant prideco, a global leader in the design, manufacture and provision of drill bits, variable gauge stabilizers, hydraulically and mechanically actuated under-reamers, specialty coring services and downhole vibration mitigation services. 12 table of contents nov downhole manufactures fixed cutter and roller cone drill bits and services its customer base through a technical sales and marketing network in virtually every significant oil and gas producing region of the world. it provides fixed-cutter bit technology under various brand names including trex &reg; , raptor , helios , systemmatched and rotary steerable. one of its most significant fixed cutter drill bit innovations is the trex &reg; , raptor , helios , and duraforce family of cutter technologies which significantly increase abrasion resistance (wear life) and thermal abrasion resistance without sacrificing impact resistance (toughness). this technology provides a diamond surface that maintains a sharp, low-wear cutting edge that produces drilling results that exceed conventional standards for polycrystalline diamond ( pdc ) bit performance. the company licenses its manufacturing process to most other providers of pdc bits. the company produces roller-cone bits for a wide variety of oil and gas drilling applications. roller-cone bits consist of three rotating cones that have cutting teeth, which penetrate the formation through a crushing action as the cones rotate in conjunction with the rotation of the drill pipe. this cutting mechanism, while less efficient than fixed-cutter bits, is more versatile in harder formations, or where the geology is changing. we manufacture roller-cone bits with milled teeth and with tungsten carbide insert teeth, which have a longer life in harder formations. we also manufacture a unique patented line of bits using a powder-metal forging technology sold under the brand tuffcutter . we market our roller-cone products and technology globally under various brand names including rockforce , titan and tuffcutter . nov downhole designs, manufacturers and services a wide array of downhole motors used in straight hole, directional, slim hole, and coiled tubing drilling applications. these motors are sold or leased under the nov downhole brand name. the company also maintains a wide variety of motor power sections, including its proprietary powerplus and hemidril rotors and stators which it incorporates into its own motors as well as sells to third parties. downhole drilling motors utilize hydraulic horsepower from the drilling fluid pumped down the drill stem to develop torque at the bit. motors are capable of achieving higher rotary velocities than can generally be achieved using conventional surface rotary equipment. motors are often used in conjunction with high speed pdc bits to improve rates of penetration. nov downhole also manufactures and sells drilling jars and fishing tools. drilling jars are placed in the drill string, where they can be used to generate a sudden, jarring motion to free the drill string should it become stuck in the wellbore during the drilling process. this jarring motion is generated using hydraulic and/or mechanical force provided at the surface. in the event that a portion of the drill string becomes stuck and cannot be jarred loose, fishing tools are run into the wellbore on the end of the drill string to retrieve the portion that is stuck. through its coring services business line, nov downhole offers coring solutions that enable the extraction of actual rock samples from a drilled well bore and allow geologists to examine the formations at the surface. one of the coring services utilized is the company unique corion express &reg; system which allows the customer to drill and core a well without tripping pipe. corion express &reg; utilizes wireline retrievable drilling and coring elements which allow the system to transform from a drilling assembly to a coring assembly and also to wireline retrieve the geological core. this capability enables customers to save significant time and expense during the drilling and coring process. nov downhole offers a wide variety of industry leading technologies to enable customers to enlarge the diameter of a drilled hole below a restriction (typically a casing string) via its borehole enlargement business line. borehole enlargement services are typically utilized in deep water drilling where customers wish to maximize the size of each successive casing string in order to preserve a relatively large completion hole size through which to produce hydrocarbons from the reservoir. borehole enlargement is also employed where customers wish to reduce the fluid velocity and pressure within the well-bore annulus to reduce the risk of formation erosion or accidental fracture. borehole enlargement provides bi-centered drill bits, expandable reamers (marketed under the anderreamer brand name) and associated equipment along with well-site service technicians who deliver 24 hour support during hole enlargement operations. nov downhole offers drilling optimization services via its advanced drilling solutions ( ads ) business line. ads services incorporate various downhole vibration measurement and mitigation tools along with dedicated, highly trained personnel who interpret such data and provide drilling parameter guidance intended to improve drilling efficiency and reduce drilling risk. pumps &amp; expendables . the company pumps &amp; expendables business designs, manufactures, and sells pumps that are used in oil and gas drilling operations, well service operations, production applications, as well as industrial applications. these pumps include reciprocating positive displacement and centrifugal pumps. high pressure mud pumps are sold within the rig technology segment. these pumps are sold as individual units and unitized packages with drivers, controls and piping. the company also manufactures fluid end expendables (liners, valves, pistons, and plungers), fluid end modules and a complete line of dies and inserts for pipe handling. the company offers popular industry brand names like wheatley, gaso, and omega reciprocating pumps, acquired in 2000; halco centrifugal pumps, acquired in 2002; petroleum expendable products ( pep ), acquired in 1997; and phoenix energy products, acquired in 1998. 13 table of contents the company also manufactures a line of commodity and high end valves, chokes, and flow line equipment used in both production and drilling applications. additionally, these products are used in the fabrication of choke and kill standpipe, cement, and production manifolds. the company manufactures its pump products in houston, odessa and marble falls, texas; tulsa and mcalester, oklahoma; scott, louisiana; newcastle, england and buenos aires, argentina. xl systems. the company xl systems product line offers the customer an integrated package of large-bore tubular products and services for offshore wells. this product line includes the company proprietary line of wedge thread marine connections on large-bore tubulars and related engineering and design services. the company provides this product line for drive pipe, jet strings and conductor casing. the company also offers weld-on connections and service personnel in connection with the installation of these products. in 2007, the company completed development of its high-strength viper weld-on connector to permit the company to penetrate traditional markets that do not require the enhanced performance of its proprietary wedge-thread design. customers and competition. customers for the petroleum services &amp; supplies tubular services include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield equipment and product distributors and manufacturers, oilfield service companies, steel mills, and other industrial companies. the company competitors include, among others, edo corporation; shawcor ltd.; schlumberger, ltd.; frank international, inc.; baker hughes incorporated; halliburton company; weatherford international ltd.; patterson tubular services; vallourec &amp; mannesmann; and precision tube (a division of tenaris). in addition, the company competes with a number of smaller regional competitors in tubular inspection. certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the company operates have adopted policies or regulations that may give local nationals in these countries certain competitive advantages. within the company corrosion control products, certain substitutes such as non-metallic tubulars, inhibitors, corrosion resistant alloys, cathodic protection systems, and non-metallic liner systems also compete with the company products. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting this business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of products, spare parts, and consumables, breadth of product line and price. the primary customers for drilling services offered by the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil companies. competitors in drilling services include schlumberger, ltd.; baker hughes incorporated; halliburton company; derrick manufacturing corp.; fluid systems; oil tools pte. ltd; peak energy services, ltd.; varel; united diamond; roper; southwest oilfield products; and a number of regional competitors. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment sells drilling services into highly competitive markets. management believes that on-site service is becoming an increasingly important competitive element in this market, and that the principal competitive factors affecting the business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, product availability and technology, breadth of product line and price. distribution &amp; transmission distribution services (nov wilson). the distribution services business unit is a market leader in the provision of supply chain management services to drilling contractors, exploration and production, pipeline operators and downstream energy processors) companies around the world. through its network of approximately 460 branch locations worldwide, this business unit stocks and sells oilfield products including pipe, consumable maintenance, repair and operating supplies, valves, fittings, flanges and spare parts, all of which are needed throughout the drilling, completion and production process, midstream infrastructure development as well as refining and petrochemical businesses. the supplies and equipment stocked by our branches are customized to meet changing and varied local customer demands. the distribution services business unit also provides one-stop-shop value propositions within the oil and gas exploration and production market in targeted areas of artificial lift, measurement and controls, valving and actuation, and flow optimization. additionally, distribution provides warehouse management, vendor integration and various inventory management services. through focused effort, the business unit has built expertise in providing applications engineering, systems and parts integration, optimization solutions, and after-sales service and support. distribution services supply chain solutions for customers include outsourcing the functions of procurement, inventory and warehouse management, logistics, business process, and performance metrics reporting. this solution allows the business unit to leverage the flexible infrastructure of its sap erp system to streamline the acquisition process from requisition to procurement to payment, by digitally managing approval routing and workflow, and by providing robust reporting functionality. with its recent acquisitions, more than 80% of distribution services segment sales were in the united states and canada. the remainder comes from key international markets in latin america, the north sea, middle east, africa and the far east. the distribution services business unit has now expanded into oilfields in over 20 countries. approximately 10% of its revenue is from the resale of goods manufactured by other segments within the company. the balance is from the sale of goods manufactured by third parties. 14 table of contents distribution services increases revenue and enhances customer alliances by continuously expanding product and service solutions and creating differentiated value propositions. the business unit leverages its extensive purchasing power to reduce the cost of goods. it is strategically and selectively expanding its sourcing network into low cost countries globally. transmission. the transmission business unit supplies products and services used in the construction of water pipelines, lining, progressing cavity pumps, grinders, filters, and screens used in industrial applications, and artificial lift equipment and solutions used for increased oil and gas production. within the transmission business unit the infrastructure products business manufactures concrete cylinder pipe, prestressed concrete cylinder pipe, steel pipe and reinforced concrete pipe for water transmission, storm and industrial waste water and sewage collection. products are marketed directly using the company own personnel, typically through competitive bidding. the company competes with several other manufacturers and also with alternative products such as ductile iron, plastic, and clay pipe; but ordinarily these other materials do not offer the full diameter range produced by the company. this business unit also includes the manufacturing of polyvinyl chloride and polyethylene sheet lining for the protection of concrete pipe and cast-in-place concrete structures from the corrosive effects of sewer gases, acids and industrial chemicals. the infrastructure products group also supplies ready-mix concrete, crushed and sized basaltic aggregates, dune sand and concrete pipe, primarily to the construction industry in hawaii. ample raw materials for the aggregates and concrete products are typically available locally in hawaii, and the business has exclusive rights to quarries containing many years reserves. the infrastructure products group also manufactures and markets concrete and steel poles for highway, street and outdoor area lighting and for traffic signals across the u.s. within its market, there are competitors for each of the business unit products. sales of poles are nationwide, but with a stronger concentration in the western and southeastern u.s. the marketing of poles is handled by the business own sales force and by outside sales agents. competition for poles is mainly based on price and quality, but with some consideration for service and delivery. within the transmission business unit, the mono business serves its customers in various industrial and oil and gas markets by design, manufacturing and distributing key products including progressing cavity pumps, grinders, screens, filters, well-head drives, hydraulic pumping units, rod pumps, plunger lift systems and production automation systems and engineering related systems solutions. this business is highly diversified through its presence in oil and gas and industrial markets, which include waste water treatment, mining, chemical processing, paper and pulp, agriculture, food and beverage, among others. the mono business supports its customers through direct sales, in partnership with over 700 channels to market and through national oilwell varco own network of supply branches. mono is strengthening its offering by adding new artificial lift technologies, as well as measurement and controls competencies. customers and competition. the primary customers for distribution services include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, refineries, pipeline operators, downstream energy processors and national oil companies. customers for transmission include local, state and federal agencies, developers, general contractors, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil companies. mono also services a diverse customer base including oil &amp; gas producers who use its products to produce oil and dewater gas wells, waste water treatment plants, cattle ranches, underground mines, wineries, paper mills, and food packaging plants. competitors for distribution services include mrc global, inc.; edgen murray; ferguson enterprises, inc. (a subsidiary of wolseley, plc); wesco international inc.; ks energy limited; russel metals energy products and a number of large regional or product-specific competitors. competitors for transmission include northwestern pipe company, a number of regional competitors for water pipelines, with valmont, skycast and stresscrete as competitors for pole products. mono competes with well-established european and north american brands like netzsch, pcm, kudu, weatherford and dover. 15 table of contents 2012 acquisitions and other investments in 2012, the company made the following acquisitions: acquisition form operating segment date of transaction techdrill ltd/forth valley engineering ltd stock petroleum services &amp; supplies january 2012 wyoming pipe and tool corporation stock petroleum services &amp; supplies january 2012 interval llc stock petroleum services &amp; supplies january 2012 nkt flexibles i/s stock rig technology april 2012 spectral, inc. asset petroleum services &amp; supplies april 2012 enerflow industries, inc. stock/asset rig technology may 2012 wilson distribution stock distribution &amp; transmission may 2012 zap-lok pipeline systems, inc. stock petroleum services &amp; supplies june 2012 engco sales ltd asset distribution &amp; transmission june 2012 ce franklin ltd stock distribution &amp; transmission july 2012 dynawinch industries ltd stock rig technology july 2012 petrex, inc. stock petroleum services &amp; supplies august 2012 fiberspar corporation stock petroleum services &amp; supplies october 2012 algoa oil &amp; pipeline services ltd stock rig technology october 2012 algoa international anstalt/algoa international angola anstalt stock rig technology november 2012 gh services, llc stock rig technology december 2012 westpro fluid handling systems stock distribution &amp; transmission december 2012 the company paid an aggregate purchase price of $2,880 million, net of cash acquired for acquisitions in 2012. on february 20, 2013, the company completed its previously announced acquisition of robbins &amp; myers, inc. for approximately $2.5 billion in cash. the company borrowed approximately $1.4 billion under the $3.5 billion revolving credit facility and used approximately $1.1 billion of cash on hand to fund the acquisition. seasonal nature of the company business historically, the level of some of the company segments have followed seasonal trends to some degree. in general, the rig technology segment has not experienced significant seasonal fluctuation although orders for new equipment and aftermarket spare parts may be modestly affected by holiday schedules. there can be no guarantee that seasonal effects will not influence future sales in this segment. in canada, the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment has typically realized high first quarter activity levels, as operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling and production areas. in past years, certain canadian businesses within petroleum services &amp; supplies and distribution &amp; transmission have declined during the second quarter due to warming weather conditions which resulted in thawing, softer ground, difficulty accessing drill sites, and road bans that curtailed drilling activity ( canadian breakup ). however, these segments have typically rebounded in the third and fourth quarter. petroleum services &amp; supplies activity in both the u.s. and canada sometimes increases during the third quarter and then peaks in the fourth quarter as operators spend the remaining drilling and/or production capital budgets for that year. petroleum services &amp; supplies revenues in the rocky mountain region sometimes decline in the late fourth quarter or early first quarter due to harsh winter weather. the segment fiberglass and composite tubulars business in china has typically declined in the first quarter due to the impact of weather on manufacturing and installation operations, and due to business slowdowns associated with the chinese new year. the company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue. however, there can be no guarantee that spending by the company customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past or that spending by other customers will remain the same as in prior years. marketing and distribution network substantially all of our rig technology capital equipment and spare parts sales, and a large portion of our smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through our direct sales force and distribution service centers. sales to foreign oil companies are often made with or through agent or representative arrangements. products within petroleum service &amp; supplies are rented and sold worldwide through our own sales force and through commissioned representatives. distribution &amp; transmission sales are made directly through our network of distribution service centers. 16 table of contents the rig technology segment customers include drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumpers, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. rig technology purchases can represent significant capital expenditures, and are often sold as part of a rig fabrication or major rig refurbishment package. sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the company bids jointly with other related product and services providers, such as rig fabrication yards and rig design firms. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment customers for tubular services include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, oilfield equipment and product distributors and manufacturers, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield service companies, pressure pumpers, pipeline operators, pipe mills, manufacturers and processors, and other industrial companies. certain tubular inspection and tubular coating products and services often are incorporated as a part of a tubular package sold by tubular supply stores to end users. the company primarily has direct operations in the international marketplace, but operates through agents in certain markets. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment customers for drilling services are predominantly major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, providers of drilling fluids, and other oilfield service companies. this segment operates sales and distribution facilities at strategic locations worldwide to service areas with high drilling activity. strategically located service and engineering facilities provide specialty repair and maintenance services to customers. sales of capital equipment are sometimes made through rig fabricators, and often are bid as part of a rig fabrication package or rig refurbishment package. sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the company bids jointly with other related service providers. the distribution &amp; transmission segment distribution services sales are made through our network of distribution service centers. customers for our products and services include drilling and other service contractors, exploration and production companies, supply companies and nationally owned or controlled drilling and production companies. the distribution &amp; transmission segment customers for transmission products and services primarily include local, state and federal agencies, developers and general contractors. the company foreign operations, which include significant operations in canada, europe, the far east, the middle east, africa and latin america, are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including foreign currency exchange risks and uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the company operates have adopted policies (or are subject to governmental policies) giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of such policies, the company relies on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationship between the company and such government-owned petroleum companies. although the company has not experienced any material problems in foreign countries arising from nationalistic policies, political instability, economic instability or currency restrictions, there can be no assurance that such a problem will not arise in the future. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding geographic revenue information. research and new product development and intellectual property the company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights. as of december 31, 2012, the company held a substantial number of united states patents and had several patent applications pending. as of this date, the company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to inventions covered by the united states patents. additionally, the company maintains a substantial number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets. expiration dates of such patents range from 2013 to 2032. the company does not expect significant adverse effects as patents expire. although the company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. the company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenues from new products. 17 table of contents engineering and manufacturing the manufacturing processes for the company products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components and testing. most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel. the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. primary manufacturing facilities for the rig technology segment are located in houston, galena park, sugar land, conroe, cedar park, anderson, san angelo, fort worth and pampa, texas; duncan, oklahoma; orange, california; edmonton, canada; aberdeen, scotland; kristiansand, stavanger and arendal, norway; etten-leur and groot-ammers, the netherlands; carquefou, france; kalundborg and brondby, denmark; singapore; lanzhou and shanghai, china; dubai, uae; ulsan, south korea; port elizabeth and cape town, south africa; and luanda, angola. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment manufactures or assembles the equipment and products which it rents and sells to customers, and which it uses in providing services. downhole tools are manufactured at facilities in houston, texas; manchester, england; dubai, uae; maca&eacute;, brazil and singapore. drill bits are manufactured at facilities in conroe, texas; stonehouse, u.k; and jurong, singapore. drill stem technology development and drill pipe are manufactured at facilities in navasota, texas; veracruz, mexico; jurong, singapore; and baimi town, jiangyan and jiangsu, china. solids control equipment and screens are manufactured at facilities in houston and conroe, texas; new iberia, louisiana; aberdeen, scotland; trinidad; shah alum and puncak alam, malaysia; and maca&eacute;, brazil. pumps are manufactured at facilities in houston, odessa and marble falls, texas; mcalester and tulsa, oklahoma; manchester and newcastle, england; melbourne, australia; and buenos aires, argentina. nov intelliserv manufactures and assembles equipment in provo, utah. the company manufactures tubular inspection equipment and tools at its houston, texas facility for resale, and renovates and repairs equipment at its manufacturing facilities in houston, texas; celle, germany; singapore; and aberdeen, scotland. fiberglass and composite tubulars and fittings are manufactured at facilities in san antonio, burkburnett and mineral wells, texas; little rock, arkansas; tulsa, oklahoma; wichita, kansas; geldermalsen, the netherlands; betim, brazil; johor, malaysia; singapore and harbin and suzhou, china, while tubular coatings are manufactured in its houston, texas facility, or through restricted sale agreements with third party manufacturers. certain of the company manufacturing facilities and certain of the company products have various certifications, including, iso 9001, api, apex and asme. raw materials the company believes that materials and components used in its servicing and manufacturing operations and purchased for sales are generally available from multiple sources. the prices paid by the company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. since 2006 the company has experienced rising, declining and stable prices for mild steel and standard grades in line with broader economic activity and has generally seen specialty alloy prices continued to rise, driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. the company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to and adjusting prices on the products it sells. furthermore, the company continued to expand its supply base starting in 2006 throughout the world to address its customers needs. in 2012, the company witnessed flat to slight increases in steel pricing which was somewhat mitigated by improved sourcing and supply chain practices. the company anticipates flat to moderate increases in steel pricing in 2013. higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. backlog the company monitors its backlog of orders within its rig technology segment to guide its planning. backlog includes orders greater than $250,000 for most items and orders for wireline units in excess of $75,000, and which require more than three months to manufacture and deliver. backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. most require reimbursement to the company for costs incurred in such an event. there can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the company will earn a profit on backlog work. backlog for equipment at december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, was $11.9 billion, $10.2 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively. employees at december 31, 2012, the company had a total of 60,235 employees, of which 8,574 were temporary employees. approximately 906 employees in the u.s. are subject to collective bargaining agreements. additionally, certain of the company employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. the company believes its relationship with its employees is good. 18 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile . the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of production by non-opec countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas; level of production from known reserves; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity; national government political requirements; development of alternate energy sources; and environmental regulations. if there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the company will decline. volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products. oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1972. in general, oil prices approximated $18-$22 per barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have generally ranged between $25-$100 per barrel since 2000. in 2008, oil prices were extremely volatile oil prices rose to $147 per barrel in july 2008 only to fall into the $35-$45 per barrel range in december 2008. in 2009, oil prices continued to be volatile, rising to the $70 per barrel range during the year. in 2010 oil prices continued rising to finish the year well above $80 per barrel. domestic spot gas prices generally ranged between $1.80-$2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999 then experienced spikes into the $10 range in 2001 and 2003. prices generally ranged between $4.50-$12.00 per mmbtu during 2005-2008. during 2009 through 2011, spot gas prices generally stabilized, dropping into the $3.00-$4.50 per mmbtu range, but declined below $3.00 late in 2011 and throughout much of 2012 before increasing slightly above $3.00 in late 2012. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could reduce demand for our products. 19 table of contents worldwide financial and credit crisis could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. events in 2008 and 2009 constrained credit markets and sparked a serious global banking crisis. the slowdown in worldwide economic activity caused by the global recession reduced demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. while markets have improved since 2008, recent economic data suggests the potential for another global recession, which could negatively impact oil and natural gas prices and restrict availability to credit markets. any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, many of our customers access the credit markets to finance their oil and natural gas drilling activity. if the availability of credit to our customers is reduced, they may reduce their drilling and production expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for our products and services. any such reduction in spending by our customers could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment. as of december 31, 2012, we had a backlog of approximately $11.9 billion of drilling equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by our rig technology segment. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties: our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this drilling equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; and our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control. the company existing contracts for rig equipment generally carry down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and do not allow customers to cancel projects for convenience. however, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and earnings: price changes; new product and technology introductions; and improvements in availability and delivery. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. competition in our industry could lead to lower revenues and earnings. 20 table of contents we have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy. we have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through acquisitions and investment in internal growth. we anticipate that we will continue to pursue an aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the company or operate any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue. we have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. we cannot assure that we will realize earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors expectations. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future: fluctuations in the oil and gas industry; competition; the ability to service the debt obligations of the company; the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices; the ability to manage and control operating costs of the company; fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the united states and abroad; and the ability to protect our intellectual property rights. there are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability, currency restrictions, and trade and economic sanctions. approximately 59% of our revenues in 2012 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in canada, europe, the middle east, africa, southeast asia, latin america and other international markets. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies. our operations outside the united states could also expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. the u.s. department of justice ( doj ), the u.s. securities and exchange commission and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the foreign corrupt practices act and other statutes. under trading sanctions laws, the u.s. and other governments may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. if any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. we have received federal grand jury subpoenas and subsequent inquiries from governmental agencies requesting records related to our compliance with export trade laws and regulations. we have cooperated fully with agents from the department of justice, the bureau of industry and security, the office of foreign assets control, and u.s. immigration and customs enforcement in responding to the inquiries. we have also cooperated with an informal inquiry from the securities and exchange commission in connection with the inquiries previously made by the aforementioned federal agencies. we have conducted our own internal review of this matter. at the conclusion of our internal review in the fourth quarter of 2009, we identified possible areas of concern and discussed these areas of concern with the relevant agencies. we are currently negotiating a potential resolution with the agencies involved related to these matters. we currently anticipate that any administrative fine or penalty agreed to as part of a resolution would be within established accruals, and would not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. to the extent a resolution is not negotiated as anticipated, we cannot predict the timing or effect that any resulting government actions may have on our financial position or results of operations. 21 table of contents the results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including, but not limited to, the canadian dollar, the euro, the british pound sterling, the norwegian krone, the venezuelan bolivar and the south korean won. approximately 59% of our 2012 revenue was derived from sales outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. thus, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income. because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net exposure to currency exchange fluctuations. we had forward contracts with a notional amount of $3,662 million (with a fair value of $86 million) as of december 31, 2012, to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are also subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results. an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings. the company has approximately $7.1 billion of goodwill and $0.6 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2012. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant reduction in worldwide well remediation activity; a significant reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity; resulting in an increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. see additional discussion on goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets in critical accounting estimates of item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or environmental damage and suspension of operations. 22 table of contents our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. the u.s. congress is currently working on legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the united states, which includes establishing cap-and-trade programs. in addition to the pending climate legislation, the u.s. environmental protection agency has proposed regulations that would require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities, and may issue final rules this year. these changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. we had revenues of 10% of total revenue from one of our customers for the year ended december 31, 2012. the loss of this customer (samsung heavy industries) or a significant reduction in its purchases could adversely affect our future revenues and earnings. the 2010 moratorium on deepwater drilling in the u.s. gulf of mexico and its consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business. a moratorium on deepwater drilling in the u.s. gulf of mexico was enacted during the second quarter of 2010 following the macondo well blowout and oil spill. even though such moratorium has been lifted, any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas drilling and production activity as a result of such moratorium or permitting issues in this area could result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger systems and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 23 table of contents glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds ( pdcs ). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. 24 table of contents drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe a spoolable glass fiber-reinforced epoxy composite tubular product for onshore oil and gas gathering and injection systems, with superior corrosion resistant properties and lower installed cost than steel. flexible pipe a dynamic riser that connects subsea production equipment to a topside facility allowing for the flow of oil, gas, and/or water. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. fpso a floating production, storage and offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. hydraulic fracturing the process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1. in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four- or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four- or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). 25 table of contents kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. compare break out. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. mooring system the method by which a vessel or buoy is fixed to a certain position, whether permanently or temporarily. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment equipment used in: 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. 26 table of contents rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shaker see shale shaker shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. 27 table of contents tiebacks (subsea) a series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. turret mechanical device that allows a floating vessel to rotate around stationary flowlines, umbilicals, and other associated risers. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. wellhead the termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange rates. lower exchange losses were partially offset by increased bank charges. the increase in bank charges is primarily due to an increase in our standby letters of credit coupled with increased bank activity through growth both internally and through. provision for income taxes the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2011 was 32.1%, compared to 30.8% for 2010. compared to the u.s. statutory rate, the effective tax rate was positively impacted in the period by the effect of lower tax rates on income in foreign jurisdictions, an increase in the benefit of the manufacturing deduction as a result of increasing income in the u.s., plus the effect of tax rate reductions on timing differences in foreign jurisdictions. this was partially offset by additional prior period taxes on foreign dividends. the impact of these prior period discrete items is not material to any individual prior period. 44 table of contents non-gaap financial measures and reconciliations in an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding our results as determined by gaap, we disclose various non-gaap financial measures in our quarterly earnings press releases and other public disclosures. the primary non-gaap financial measures we focus on are: (i) operating profit excluding other costs, (ii) operating profit percentage excluding other costs, and (iii) diluted earnings per share excluding other costs. each of these financial measures excludes the impact of certain other costs and therefore has not been calculated in accordance with gaap. a reconciliation of each of these non-gaap financial measures to its most comparable gaap financial measure is included below. we use these non-gaap financial measures internally to evaluate and manage the company operations because we believe it provides useful supplemental information regarding the company on-going economic performance. we have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform more meaningful comparisons of operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of on-going operations. the following tables set forth the reconciliations of these non-gaap financial measures to their most comparable gaap financial measures (in millions, except per share data): three months ended years ended december 31, december 31, september 30, 2012 2012 2011 2012 2011 2010 reconciliation of operating profit: gaap operating profit $ 903 $ 848 $ 898 $ 3,557 $ 2,937 $ 2,447 other costs (1): rig technology 12 6 12 45 17 8 petroleum services &amp; supplies 15 6 18 23 9 distribution &amp; transmission 24 36 68 1 1 operating profit excluding other costs $ 954 $ 860 $ 946 $ 3,688 $ 2,978 $ 2,465 three months ended years ended december 31, december 31, september 30, 2012 2012 2011 2012 2011 2010 reconciliation of operating profit %: gaap operating profit % 15.9 % 19.9 % 16.9 % 17.7 % 20.0 % 20.1 % other costs % 0.9 % 0.3 % 0.9 % 0.7 % 0.3 % 0.2 % operating profit % excluding other costs 16.8 % 20.2 % 17.8 % 18.4 % 20.3 % 20.3 % three months ended years ended december 31, december 31, september 30, 2012 2012 2011 2012 2011 2010 reconciliation of diluted earnings per share: gaap earnings per share $ 1.56 $ 1.35 $ 1.43 $ 5.83 $ 4.70 $ 3.98 other costs (1) 0.09 0.02 0.09 0.24 0.07 0.11 tax benefits (2) (0.16 ) (0.16 ) earnings per share excluding other costs (benefits) $ 1.49 $ 1.37 $ 1.52 $ 5.91 $ 4.77 $ 4.09 (1) other costs primarily include items such as the expense recognition of backlog and inventory that was stepped up to fair value during purchase accounting, items which are included in operating profit. for the three months ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 and september 30, 2012, other costs included in operating profit were $51 million, $12 million and $48 million, respectively. certain other costs are included in other income (expense), net as well as interest and financial costs and were nil, nil and $9 million for the three months ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 and september 30, 2012, respectively. for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, other costs included in operating profit were $131 million, $41 million and $18 million, respectively. certain other costs are included in other income (expense), net as well as interest and financial costs and were $12 million, nil and $27 million for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (2) includes a net $69 million tax benefit related to certain u.s. foreign tax credits arising in the three months ended december 31, 2012. these credits resulted from a strategic reorganization of certain foreign operations to more fully integrate recently acquired businesses. 45 table of contents liquidity and capital resources the company assesses liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund operating, investing and financing activities. the company remains in a strong financial position, with resources available to reinvest in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and capital expenditures to meet short- and long-term objectives. the company believes that cash on hand, cash generated from expected results of operations and amounts available under its revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund operations, anticipated working capital needs and other cash requirements such as capital expenditures, debt and interest payments and dividend payments for the foreseeable future. at december 31, 2012, the company had cash and cash equivalents of $3,319 million, and total debt of $3,149 million. at december 31, 2011, cash and cash equivalents were $3,535 million and total debt was $510 million. the $2,855 million reduction in the net cash (cash less debt) balance in 2012 was due primarily to $2,880 million in cash paid for 2012 acquisitions. a significant portion of the consolidated cash balances are maintained in accounts in various foreign subsidiaries and, if such amounts were transferred among countries or repatriated to the u.s., such amounts may be subject to additional tax obligations. of the $3,319 million of cash and cash equivalents at december 31, 2012, approximately $1,994 million is held outside the u.s. of this amount, approximately $1,785 million is considered permanently reinvested and is available to fund operations and other growth of foreign subsidiaries including, but not limited to, capital expenditures, acquisitions and working capital needs. of the $3,535 million of cash and cash equivalents at december 31, 2011, approximately $3,300 million was held outside the u.s. and approximately $1,900 million was considered permanently reinvested. if opportunities to invest in the u.s. are greater than available cash balances, rather than repatriating this cash, the company may choose to borrow against its revolving credit facility. on february 20, 2013, the company completed its previously announced acquisition of robbins &amp; myers, inc. for approximately $2.5 billion in cash. the company borrowed approximately $1.4 billion under the $3.5 billion revolving credit facility and used approximately $1.1 billion of cash on hand to fund the acquisition. new revolving credit facility on september 28, 2012, the company entered into a new five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions. this new credit facility replaced early the company previous $2.0 billion revolving credit facility and provides for aggregate multicurrency borrowings up to $3.5 billion. in addition, the company has the option to increase aggregate borrowing availability by an additional $1.0 billion, subject to syndication approval. interest under the new credit facility is based upon libor, nibor or euribor plus 0.875% subject to a ratings-based grid, or the prime rate. the terms of the new credit facility provide for a financial covenant regarding maximum debt to capitalization. at december 31, 2012, the company was in compliance with the financial covenant under the new credit facility. redemption of unsecured senior notes due 2012 on november 15, 2012, the company repaid $200 million of its 5.65% unsecured senior notes and $150 million of its 5.50% unsecured senior notes. both series of unsecured senior notes were repaid using available cash balances. issuance of unsecured senior notes due 2017, 2022 and 2042 on november 20, 2012, the company issued the following; $500 million of 1.35% unsecured senior notes due 2017, $1.4 billion of 2.60% unsecured senior notes due 2022 and $1.1 billion of 3.95% unsecured senior notes due 2042. the net proceeds were $2,969 million, after deducting $22 million in underwriting fees and a $9 million discount. interest on each series of notes is due on june 1 and december 1 of each year, beginning on june 1, 2013. the company may redeem some or all of the senior notes at any time at the applicable redemption, plus accrued interest, if any, to the redemption date. at december 31, 2012, the company was in compliance with the covenants under the indenture governing the senior notes. the company outstanding debt at december 31, 2012 was $3,149 million and consisted of $151 million in 6.125% senior notes, $500 million in 1.35% senior notes, $1,395 million in 2.60% senior notes and $1,096 million in 3.95% senior notes, and other debt of $7 million. at december 31, 2012, there were no borrowings under the new $3.5 billion credit facility, however, there were $938 million in outstanding letters of credit issued, resulting in $2,562 million of funds available. the company also had $2,254 million of additional outstanding letters of credit at december 31, 2012, primarily in norway, that are under various bilateral committed letter of credit facilities. other letters of credit are issued as bid bonds and performance bonds. 46 table of contents the following table summarizes our net cash flows provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash provided by (used in) financing activities for the periods presented (in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 net cash provided by operating activities $ 620 $ 2,143 $ 1,542 net cash used in investing activities (3,428 ) (1,458 ) (743 ) net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 2,583 (464 ) (102 ) operating activities net cash provided by operating activities was $620 million in 2012 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $2,143 million in 2011. before changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions, cash was provided by operations primarily through net income of $2,483 million plus non-cash charges of $628 million and $61 million in a dividend received from voest-alpine tubulars, an unconsolidated affiliate, less $58 million in equity income. net changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions, used $2,536 million in 2012 compared to $164 million used in 2011. due to an increase in market activity during 2012 compared to 2011, revenue and backlog increased which is reflected in increased accounts receivable as well as a buildup in inventory. increased market activity during 2012 also resulted in higher taxes paid, higher accounts payable and an increase in both costs in excess of billings and billings in excess of costs with costs incurred on major rig projects outpacing customer progress and milestone invoicing. investing activities net cash used in investing activities was $3,428 million in 2012 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $1,458 million in 2011. net cash used in investing activities continued to primarily be the result of acquisition activity and capital expenditures both of which increased in 2012 compared to 2011. the company used $2,880 million for the purpose of strategic acquisitions during 2012 compared to $1,038 million in 2011. in addition, due to the continued growth in the company worldwide, both organically and through acquisition, the company used $583 million during 2012 for capital expenditures compared to $483 million in 2011. during 2012, the company used a combination of its cash on hand, borrowings from its revolving credit facility and the issuance of senior notes to fund its acquisitions and capital expenditures. financing activities net cash provided by financing activities was $2,583 million in 2012 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $464 million in 2011. the change related to a shift from the company primarily repaying debt during 2011 to the company refinancing its revolving credit facility, expanding it to $3.5 billion, and issuing three truanches of senior notes for a total of $3.0 billion in senior notes during 2012. funds received as a result of borrowing in 2012 were used to finance working capital and acquisitions and to make tax payments. proceeds from stock options exercised increased to $113 million during the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $96 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the company again increased its dividend to $209 million during the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $191 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the effect of the change in exchange rates on cash flows was a positive $9 million and a negative $19 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. we believe that cash on hand, cash generated from operations and amounts available under our credit facilities and from other sources of debt will be sufficient to fund operations, working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, dividends and financing obligations. we intend to pursue additional acquisition candidates, but the timing, size or success of any acquisition effort and the related potential capital commitments cannot be predicted. we continue to expect to fund future cash acquisitions primarily with cash flow from operations and borrowings, including the unborrowed portion of the credit facility or new debt issuances, but may also issue additional equity either directly or in connection with acquisitions. there can be no assurance that additional financing for acquisitions will be available at terms acceptable to us. 47 table of contents a summary of the company outstanding contractual obligations at december 31, 2012 is as follows (in millions): payment due by period total less than 1 year 1-3 years 4-5 years after 5 years contractual obligations: total debt $ 3,149 $ 1 $ 154 $ 500 $ 2,494 operating leases 1,119 220 322 202 375 total contractual obligations $ 4,268 $ 221 $ 476 $ 702 $ 2,869 commercial commitments: standby letters of credit $ 3,192 $ 1,715 $ 960 $ 411 $ 106 as of december 31, 2012, the company had $128 million of unrecognized tax benefits. this represents the tax benefits associated with various tax positions taken, or expected to be taken, on domestic and international tax returns that have not been recognized in our financial statements due to uncertainty regarding their resolution. due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with these unrecognized tax benefits, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. accordingly, unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. for further information related to unrecognized tax benefits, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. 48 table of contents critical accounting policies and estimates in preparing the financial statements, we make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported. we periodically evaluate our estimates and judgments that are most critical in nature which are related to revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts; allowance for doubtful accounts; inventory reserves; impairments of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets); goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets; service and product warranties and income taxes. our estimates are based on historical experience and on our future expectations that we believe are reasonable. the combination of these factors forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results are likely to differ from our current estimates and those differences may be material. revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts the company uses the percentage-of-completion method to account for certain long-term construction contracts in the rig technology segment. these long-term construction contracts include the following characteristics: the contracts include custom designs for customer specific applications; the structural design is unique and requires significant engineering efforts; and construction projects often have progress payments. this method requires the company to make estimates regarding the total costs of the project, progress against the project schedule and the estimated completion date, all of which impact the amount of revenue and gross margin the company recognizes in each reporting period. the company prepares detailed cost to complete estimates at the beginning of each project, taking into account all factors considered likely to affect gross margin. significant projects and their related costs and profit margins are updated and reviewed at least quarterly by senior management. factors that may affect future project costs and margins include shipyard access, weather, production efficiencies, availability and costs of labor, materials and subcomponents and other factors as mentioned in risk factors. these factors can significantly impact the accuracy of the company estimates and materially impact the company future reported earnings. historically, the company estimates have been reasonably dependable regarding the recognition of revenues and gross profits on percentage-of-completion contracts. based upon an analysis of percentage-of-completion contracts for all open contracts outstanding at december 31, 2011 and 2010, adjustments (representing the differences between the estimated and actual results) to all outstanding contracts resulted in net increases to gross profit margins of 0.78% ($75 million on $9.6 billion of outstanding contracts) and 2.0% ($185 million on $9.3 billion of outstanding contracts) for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. while the company believes that its estimates on outstanding contracts at and in future periods will continue to be reasonably dependable under percentage-of-completion accounting, the factors identified in the preceding paragraph could result in significant adjustments in future periods. the company has recorded revenue on outstanding contracts (on a contract-to-date basis) of $8.4 billion at december 31, 2012. allowance for doubtful accounts the determination of the collectability of amounts due from customer accounts requires the company to make judgments regarding future events and trends. allowances for doubtful accounts are determined based on a continuous process of assessing the company portfolio on an individual customer basis taking into account current market conditions and trends. this process consists of a thorough review of historical collection experience, current aging status of the customer accounts, and financial condition of the company customers. based on a review of these factors, the company will establish or adjust allowances for specific customers. a substantial portion of the company revenues come from international oil companies, international shipyards, international oilfield service companies, and government-owned or government-controlled oil companies. therefore, the company has significant receivables in many foreign jurisdictions. if worldwide oil and gas drilling activity or changes in economic conditions in foreign jurisdictions deteriorate, the creditworthiness of the company customers could also deteriorate and they may be unable to pay these receivables, and additional allowances could be required. at december 31, 2012 and 2011, allowance for bad debts totaled $120 million and $107 million, or 2.7% and 3.1% of gross accounts receivable, respectively. historically, the company charge-offs and provisions for the allowance for doubtful accounts have been immaterial to the company consolidated financial statements. however, because of the risk factors mentioned above, changes in estimates could become material in future periods. 49 table of contents inventory reserves inventory is carried at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. the company determines reserves for inventory based on historical usage of inventory on-hand, assumptions about future demand and market conditions, and estimates about potential alternative uses, which are usually limited. the company inventory consists of specialized spare parts, work in process, and raw materials to support ongoing manufacturing operations and the company large installed base of specialized equipment used throughout the oilfield. customers rely on the company to stock these specialized items to ensure that their equipment can be repaired and serviced in a timely manner. the company estimated carrying value of inventory therefore depends upon demand driven by oil and gas drilling and well remediation activity, which depends in turn upon oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the company customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. at december 31, 2012 and 2011, inventory reserves totaled $338 million and $281 million, or 5.4% and 6.5% of gross inventory, respectively. while inventory reserves and accruals have not had a material impact on the company financial results for the periods covered in this report, changes in worldwide oil and gas activity, or the development of new technologies which make older drilling technologies obsolete, could require the company to record additional allowances to reduce the value of its inventory. such changes in our estimates could be material under weaker market conditions or outlook. impairment of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets) long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment and identified intangible assets, comprise a significant amount of the company total assets. the company makes judgments and estimates in conjunction with the carrying value of these assets, including amounts to be capitalized, depreciation and amortization methods and estimated useful lives. the carrying values of these assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. an impairment loss is recorded in the period in which it is determined that the carrying amount is not recoverable. we estimate the fair value of these intangible and fixed assets using an income approach. this requires the company to make long-term forecasts of its future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review. these forecasts require assumptions about demand for the company products and services, future market conditions and technological developments. the forecasts are dependent upon assumptions regarding oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the company customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. the financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our income forecast as well as our weighted-average cost of capital, both key assumptions used in our calculation. changes to these assumptions, including, but not limited to: sustained declines in worldwide rig counts below current analysts forecasts, collapse of spot and futures prices for oil and gas, significant deterioration of external financing for our customers, higher risk premiums or higher cost of equity, or any other significant adverse economic news could require a provision for impairment in a future period. goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets the company has approximately $7.1 billion of goodwill and $0.6 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2012. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually or more frequently whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include, but not limited to: further sustained declines in worldwide rig counts below current analysts forecasts, further collapse of spot and futures prices for oil and gas, significant additional deterioration of external financing for our customers, higher risk premiums or higher cost of equity. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined by deducting the fair value of a reporting unit identifiable assets and liabilities from the fair value of that reporting unit as a whole. fair value of the reporting units is determined in accordance with asc topic 820 fair value measurements and disclosures using significant unobservable inputs, or level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. these inputs are based on internal management estimates, forecasts and judgments, using a combination of three methods: discounted cash flow, comparable companies, and representative transactions. while the company primarily uses the discounted cash flow method to assess fair value, the company uses the comparable companies and representative transaction methods to validate the discounted cash flow analysis and further support management expectations, where possible. the discounted cash flow is based on management short-term and long-term forecast of operating performance for each reporting unit. the two main assumptions used in measuring goodwill impairment, which bear the risk of change and could impact the company goodwill impairment analysis, include the cash flow from operations from each of the company individual business units and the weighted average cost of capital. the starting point for each of the reporting unit cash flow from operations is the detailed annual plan or updated forecast. the detailed planning and forecasting process takes into consideration a multitude of factors including worldwide rig activity, inflationary forces, pricing strategies, customer analysis, operational issues, competitor analysis, capital spending requirements, working capital needs, customer needs to replace aging equipment, increased complexity of drilling, new technology, and existing backlog among other items which impact the individual reporting unit projections. cash flows beyond the specific operating plans were estimated using a terminal value calculation, which incorporated historical and forecasted financial cyclical trends for each reporting unit and considered long-term earnings growth rates. the financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate. during times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit changes are a short-term or long-term trend. the annual impairment test is performed during the fourth quarter of each year. the valuation techniques used in the annual test were consistent with those used during previous testing. the inputs used in the annual test were updated for current market conditions and forecasts. based on its analysis, the company did not report any impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. purchase price allocation of acquisitions the company allocates the purchase price of an acquired business to its identifiable assets and liabilities based on estimated fair values. the excess of the purchase price over the amount allocated to the assets and liabilities, if any, is recorded as goodwill. the company uses all available information to estimate fair values including quoted market prices, the carrying value of acquired assets, and widely accepted valuation techniques such as discounted cash flows (all level 3 unobservable inputs). the company engages third-party appraisal firms to assist in fair value determination of inventories, identifiable intangible assets, and any other significant assets or liabilities when appropriate. the judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, could materially impact the company results of operations. 50 table of contents service and product warranties the company provides service and warranty policies on certain of its products. the company accrues liabilities under service and warranty policies based upon specific claims and a review of historical warranty and service claim experience in accordance with asc topic 450 contingencies ( asc topic 450 ). adjustments are made to accruals as claim data and historical experience change. in addition, the company incurs discretionary costs to service its products in connection with product performance issues and accrues for them when they are encountered. the company monitors the actual cost of performing these discretionary services and adjusts the accrual based on the most current information available. at december 31, 2012 and 2011, service and product warranties totaled $194 million and $211 million, respectively. income taxes the company is a u.s. registered company and is subject to income taxes in the u.s. and other jurisdictions in which it operates. the company operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. income taxes have been provided based upon the tax laws and rates of the countries in which the company operates and income is earned. the company annual tax provision is based on taxable income, statutory rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. the determination and evaluation of the annual tax provision and tax positions involves the interpretation of the tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which the company operates. it requires significant judgment and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events such as the amount, timing and character of income, deductions and tax credits. changes in tax laws, regulations, and treaties, foreign currency exchange restrictions or the company level of operations or profitability in each jurisdiction could impact the tax liability in any given year. the company also operates in many jurisdictions where the tax laws relating to the pricing of transactions between related parties are open to interpretation, which could potentially result in aggressive tax authorities asserting additional tax liabilities with no offsetting tax recovery in other countries. the company maintains liabilities for estimated tax exposures in jurisdictions of operation. the annual tax provision includes the impact of income tax provisions and benefits for changes to liabilities that the company considers appropriate, as well as related interest. tax exposure items primarily include potential challenges to intercompany pricing and certain operating expenses that may not be deductible in foreign jurisdictions. these exposures are resolved primarily through the settlement of audits within these tax jurisdictions or by judicial means. the company is subject to audits by federal, state and foreign jurisdictions which may result in proposed assessments. the company believes that an appropriate liability has been established for estimated exposures under the guidance in asc topic 740 income taxes ( asc topic 740 ). however, actual results may differ materially from these estimates. the company reviews these liabilities quarterly and to the extent audits or other events result in an adjustment to the liability accrued for a prior year, the effect will be recognized in the period of the event. the company currently has recorded valuation allowances that the company intends to maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. income tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in the company valuation allowances. the realization of remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that the company record an additional valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. an increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on future earnings. the company has not provided for deferred taxes on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries that are permanently reinvested. should the company make a distribution from the unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries, the company may be required to record additional taxes. unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries were $4,620 million and $3,789 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the company makes a determination each period whether to permanently reinvest these earnings. if, as a result of these reassessments, the company distributes these earnings in the future, additional tax liabilities would result, offset by any available foreign tax credits. 51 table of contents recently issued accounting standards in july 2012, the financial accounting standards board issued accounting standard update no. 2012-02 intangibles goodwill and other (topic 350) that amends the accounting guidance on testing indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. the amendments in this accounting standard update are intended to reduce complexity and costs by allowing an entity the option to make a qualitative evaluation about the likelihood that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired to determine whether it should perform a quantitative impairment test. the amendments also enhance the consistency of impairment testing guidance among long-lived asset categories by permitting an entity to assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to calculate the asset fair value when testing an indefinite-lived intangible asset for impairment, which is equivalent to the impairment testing requirements for other long-lived assets. the amendments in this accounting standard update are effective for interim and annual impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after september 15, 2012. the company tests its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. forward looking statements some of the information in this document contains, or has incorporated by reference, forward-looking statements. statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements typically are identified by use of terms such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate, and similar words, although some forward-looking statements are expressed differently. all statements herein regarding expected merger synergies are forward looking statements. you should be aware that our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including but not limited to changes in oil and gas prices, customer demand for our products and worldwide economic activity. you should also consider carefully the statements under risk factors which address additional factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. given these uncertainties, current or prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to update any such factors or forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. 52 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have extensive operations in foreign countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the company reported foreign currency losses of $21 million, $10 million and $30 million, respectively. gains and losses are primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency and adjustments to our hedged positions as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. strengthening of currencies against the u.s. dollar may create losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the countries using the local currency as their functional currency. some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. similarly some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated u.s. dollar costs, which also give rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. the following table details the company foreign currency exchange risk grouped by functional currency and their expected maturity periods as of december 31, 2012 (in millions except for rates): as of december 31, 2012 december 31, functional currency 2013 2014 2015 total 2011 cad buy usd/sell cad: notional amount to buy (in canadian dollars) 511 511 274 average usd to cad contract rate 0.9895 0.9895 1.0315 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars 5 5 (3 ) sell usd/buy cad: notional amount to sell (in canadian dollars) 241 14 255 239 average usd to cad contract rate 1.0238 1.0098 1.0230 1.0196 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars 6 6 (1 ) eur buy usd/sell eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 7 7 10 average usd to eur contract rate 0.7711 0.7711 1.4035 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars 1 sell usd/buy eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 180 25 205 120 average usd to eur contract rate 0.7693 0.7645 0.7687 1.3846 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars 4 4 (11 ) krw buy usd/sell krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 261 261 385 average usd to krw contract rate 919 919 920 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 639 58 697 53,825 average usd to krw contract rate 1,020 941 1,013 1,152 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars 53 table of contents as of december 31, 2012 december 31, functional currency 2013 2014 2015 total 2011 gbp buy usd/sell gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 47 47 45 average usd to gbp contract rate 0.6149 0.6149 1.5499 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 37 37 44 average usd to gbp contract rate 0.6347 0.6347 1.5818 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars 2 2 (2 ) usd buy dkk/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 38 4 42 27 average dkk to usd contract rate 0.1741 0.1761 0.1743 5.4213 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars (1 ) buy eur/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 608 56 664 710 average eur to usd contract rate 1.3111 1.2921 1.3095 1.3783 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars 6 2 8 (40 ) buy gbp/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 18 18 15 average gbp to usd contract rate 1.6044 1.6044 1.5737 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars buy nok/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 772 293 1,065 1,336 average nok to usd contract rate 0.1684 0.1637 0.1671 5.9427 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars 44 22 66 (22 ) buy sgd/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 28 3 31 10 average sgd to usd contract rate 0.8139 0.7920 0.8115 1.3022 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 12 12 3 average dkk to usd contract rate 0.1749 0.1749 5.5036 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars sell eur/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 141 141 137 average eur to usd contract rate 1.3109 1.3109 1.3517 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) 5 sell nok/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 244 30 274 173 average nok to usd contract rate 0.1722 0.1727 0.1723 5.8173 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars (9 ) (1 ) (10 ) 6 sell sgd/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 2 average sgd to usd contract rate 0.7674 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars sell rub/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 47 47 24 average rub to usd contract rate 0.0320 0.0320 32.7613 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars dkk sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 111 111 96 average dkk to usd contract rate 5.61 5.6126 5.6717 fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars other currencies fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars 6 6 (2 ) total fair value at december 31, 2012 in u.s. dollars 63 23 86 (70 ) 54 table of contents the company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies for transactional exposures totaling $567 million and translation exposures totaling $397 million as of december 31, 2012, excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on the transactional exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect net income by $37 million and the translational exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect the future fair value by $40 million. the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. during the first quarter of 2010, the venezuelan government officially devalued the venezuelan bolivar against the u.s. dollar. as a result the company converted its venezuela ledgers to u.s. dollar functional currency, devalued monetary assets resulting in a $27 million charge, and wrote-down certain accounts receivable in view of deteriorating business conditions in venezuela, resulting in an additional $11 million charge. during the first quarter of 2013, the venezuelan government again officially devalued the venezuelan bolivar against the u.s. dollar. as a result, the company expects to incur approximately $12 million in devaluation charges in the first quarter of 2013. the company net investment in venezuela was $34 million at december 31, 2012. interest rate risk at december 31, 2012, our long term borrowings consisted of $151 million in 6.125% senior notes, $500 million in 1.35% senior notes, $1,400 million in 2.60% senior notes and $1,100 million in 3.95% senior notes. we occasionally have borrowings under our credit facility, and a portion of these borrowings could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either libor, nibor or euribor, or at the prime interest rate. under our credit facility, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or euribor for 30 days to six months.risk factors and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview of oil and gas well drilling and servicing processes oil and gas wells are usually drilled by drilling contractors using a drilling rig. a bit is attached to the end of a drill stem, which is assembled by the drilling rig and its crew from 30-foot joints of drill pipe and specialized drilling components known as downhole tools. using the conventional rotary drilling method, the drill stem is turned from the rotary table of the drilling rig by torque applied to the kelly, which is screwed into the top of the drill stem. increasingly, drilling is performed using a drilling motor, which is attached to the bottom of the drill stem and provides rotational force directly to the bit, and a top drive, a device suspended from the derrick that turns the entire drill stem, rather than such force being supplied by the rotary table. the use of drilling motors and top drives permits the drilling contractor to drill directionally, including horizontally. the company sells and rents drilling motors, drill bits, downhole tools and drill pipe through its petroleum services &amp; supplies segment and sells and rents top drives through its rig technology segment. during drilling, heavy drilling fluids or drilling muds are pumped down the drill stem and forced out through jets in the bit. the drilling mud returns to the surface through the space between the borehole wall and the drill stem, carrying with it the drill cuttings drilled out by the bit. the drill cuttings are removed from the mud by a solids control system (which can include shakers, centrifuges and other specialized equipment) and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. the solids control system permits the mud, which is often comprised of expensive chemicals, to be continuously reused and re-circulated back into the hole. through its rig technology segment, the company sells the large mud pumps that are used to pump drilling mud through the drill stem. through its petroleum services &amp; supplies segment, the company sells transfer pumps and mud pump consumables; sells and rents solids control equipment; and provides solids control, waste management and drilling fluids services. many operators internally coat the drill stem to improve its hydraulic efficiency and protect it from corrosive fluids sometimes encountered during drilling, and inspect and assess the integrity of the drill pipe from time to time. the company provides drill pipe inspection and coating services, and applies hardbanding material to drill pipe to improve its wear characteristics. these services are provided through the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment. additionally, the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment manufactures and sells drill pipe. 4 table of contents as the hole depth increases, the kelly must be removed frequently so that additional 30-foot joints of drill pipe can be added to the drill stem. when the bit becomes dull or the equipment at the bottom of the drill stem including the drilling motors otherwise requires servicing, the entire drill stem is pulled out of the hole and disassembled by disconnecting the joints of drill pipe. these are set aside or racked, the old bit is replaced or service is performed, and the drill stem is reassembled and lowered back into the hole (a process called tripping ). during drilling and tripping operations, joints of drill pipe must be screwed together and tightened ( made up ), and loosened and unscrewed ( spun out ). the rig technology segment provides drilling equipment to manipulate and maneuver the drill pipe in this manner. when the hole has reached certain depths, all of the drill pipe is pulled out of the hole and larger diameter pipe known as casing is lowered into the hole and permanently cemented in place in order to protect against collapse and contamination of the hole. the casing is typically inspected before it is lowered into the hole, a service the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment provides. the rig technology segment manufactures pressure pumping equipment that is used to cement the casing in place. the raising and lowering of the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and the lowering of casing into the wellbore, is accomplished with the rig hoisting system. a conventional hoisting system is a block and tackle mechanism that works within the drilling rig derrick. the lifting of this mechanism is performed via a series of pulleys that are attached to the drawworks at the base of the derrick. the rig technology segment sells and installs drawworks and pipe hoisting systems. during the course of normal drilling operations, the drill stem passes through different geological formations, which exhibit varying pressure characteristics. if this pressure is not contained, oil, gas and/or water would flow out of these formations to the surface. the two means of containing these reservoir pressures are (i) primarily the circulation of drilling muds while drilling and (ii) secondarily the use of blowout preventers ( bops ) should the mud prove inadequate in an emergency situation. the rig technology segment sells and services blowout preventers. drilling muds are carefully designed to exhibit certain qualities that optimize the drilling process. in addition to containing formation pressure, they must (i) provide power to the drilling motor, (ii) carry drilled solids to the surface, (iii) protect the drilled formations from being damaged, and (iv) cool the drill bit. achieving these objectives often requires a formulation specific to a given well and can involve the use of expensive chemicals as well as natural materials, such as certain types of clay. the fluid itself is often oil or more expensive synthetic mud. given this expense, it is highly desirable to reuse as much of the drilling mud as possible. solids control equipment such as shale shakers, centrifuges, cuttings dryers, and mud cleaners help accomplish this objective. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment rents, sells, operates and services this equipment. drilling muds are formulated based on expected drilling conditions. however, as the hole is drilled, the drill stem may encounter a high pressure zone where the mud density is inadequate to maintain sufficient pressure. should efforts to weight up the mud in order to contain such a pressure kick fail, a blowout could result, whereby reservoir fluids would flow uncontrolled into the well. to prevent blowouts to the surface of the well, a series of high-pressure valves known as blowout preventers are positioned at the top of the well and, when activated, form tight seals that prevent the escape of fluids. when closed, conventional bops prevent normal rig operations. therefore, the bops are activated only if drilling mud and normal well control procedures cannot safely contain the pressure. the operations of the rig and the condition of the drilling mud are closely monitored by various sensors, which measure operating parameters such as the weight on the rig hook, the incidence of pressure kicks, the operation of the drilling mud pumps, etc. through its rig technology segment, the company sells and rents drilling rig instrumentation packages that perform these monitoring functions. during the drilling and completion of a well, there exists an ongoing need for various consumables and spare parts. while most of these items are small, in the aggregate they represent an important element of the process. since it is impractical for each drilling location to have a full supply of these items, drilling contractors and well service companies tend to rely on third parties to stock and deliver these items. the company provides this capability through its distribution &amp; transmission segment, which stocks and sells spares and consumables made by third parties, as well as spares and consumables made by the company. after the well has reached its total depth and the final section of casing has been set, the drilling rig is moved off of the well and the well is prepared to begin producing oil or gas in a process known as well completion. well completion usually involves installing production tubing concentrically in the casing. due to the corrosive nature of many produced fluids, production tubing is often inspected and coated, services offered by the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment. sometimes operators choose to use corrosion resistant composite materials, which the company also offers through its petroleum services &amp; supplies segment, or corrosion-resistant alloys, or operators sometimes pump fluids into wells to inhibit corrosion. from time to time, a producing well may undergo workover procedures to extend its life and increase its production rate. workover rigs are used to disassemble the wellhead, tubing and other completion components of an existing well in order to stimulate or remediate the well. workover rigs are similar to drilling rigs in their capabilities to handle tubing, but are usually smaller and somewhat less sophisticated. the company offers a comprehensive range of workover rigs through its rig technology segment. tubing and sucker rods removed from a well during a well remediation operation are often inspected to determine their suitability to be reused in the well, which is a service the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment provides. 5 table of contents frequently, coiled tubing units or wireline units are used to accomplish certain well remediation operations or well completions. coiled tubing is a recent advancement in petroleum technology consisting of a continuous length of reeled steel tubing which can be injected concentrically into the production tubing all the way to the bottom of most wells. it permits many operations to be performed without disassembling the production tubing, and without curtailing the production of the well. wireline winch units are devices that utilize single-strand or multi-strand wires to perform well remediation operations, such as lowering tools and transmitting data to the surface. through the rig technology segment, the company sells and rents various types of coiled tubing equipment and wireline equipment and tools. the company also manufactures and sells coiled tubing pipe through its petroleum services &amp; supplies segment. rig technology the company has a long tradition of pioneering innovations in drilling and well servicing equipment which improve the efficiency, safety, and cost of drilling and well servicing operations. the rig technology segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of top drives, automated pipe handling systems, motion compensation systems, rig controls, bops, handling tools, drawworks, risers, rotary tables, mud pumps, cranes, drilling motors, turret mooring systems and other products for fpsos and other offshore vessels and terminals, and other drilling equipment for both the onshore and offshore markets. rig technology also manufactures entire rig packages, both drilling and workover, in addition to well servicing equipment such as coiled tubing units, pressure pumping equipment, and wireline winches. the rig technology segment sells directly to drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. rig technology rents and sells proprietary drilling rig instrumentation packages and control systems which monitor various processes throughout the drilling operation, under the name md tm /totco tm ( instrumentation ). demand for its products, several of which are described below, is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. land rig packages . the company designs, manufactures, assembles, upgrades, and supplies equipment sets to a variety of land drilling rigs, including those specifically designed to operate in harsh environments such as the arctic circle and the desert. our key land rig product names include the drake rig, ideal rig and rapid rig tm . the company recent rig packages are designed to be safer and fast moving, to utilize ac technology, and to reduce manpower required to operate a rig. top drives . the tds top drive drilling system, originally introduced by the company in 1982, significantly alters the traditional drilling process. the tds rotates the drill stem from its top, rather than by the rotary table, with a large electric motor affixed to rails installed in the derrick that traverses the length of the derrick to the rig floor. therefore, the tds eliminates the use of the conventional rotary table for drilling. components of the tds also are used to connect additional joints of drill pipe to the drill stem during drilling operations, enabling drilling with three joints of drill pipe compared to traditionally drilling with one joint of drill pipe. additionally, the tds facilitates horizontal and extended reach drilling. electric rig motors. the company has helped lead the application of ac motor technology in the oilfield industry. the company buys motors from third parties and builds them in its own facilities and is further developing motor technology, including the introduction of permanent magnet motor technology to the industry. these permanent magnet motors are being used in top drives, cranes, mud pumps, winches, and drawworks. rotary equipment . the alternative to using a tds to rotate the drill stem is to use a rotary table, which rotates the pipe at the floor of the rig. rig technology produces rotary tables as well as kelly bushings and master bushings for most sizes of kellys and makes of rotary tables. in 1998, the company introduced the rotary support table for use on rigs with a tds. the rotary support table is used in concert with the tds to completely eliminate the need for the larger conventional rotary table. pipe handling systems . pipe racking systems are used to handle drill pipe, casing and tubing on a drilling rig. vertical pipe racking systems move drill pipe and casing between the well and a storage ( racking ) area on the rig floor. horizontal racking systems are used to handle tubulars while stored horizontally (for example, on the pipe deck of an offshore rig) and transport tubulars up to the rig floor and into a vertical position for use in the drilling process. vertical pipe racking systems are used predominantly on offshore rigs and are found on almost all floating rigs. mechanical vertical pipe racking systems greatly reduce the manual effort involved in pipe handling. pipe racking systems, introduced by the company in 1985, provide a fully automated mechanism for handling and racking drill pipe during drilling and tripping operations, spinning and torquing drill pipe, and automatic hoisting and racking of disconnected joints of drill pipe. these functions can be integrated via computer controlled sequencing, and operated by a driller in an environmentally secure cabin. an important element of this system is the iron roughneck, which was originally introduced by the company in 1976 and is an automated device that makes pipe connections on the rig floor and requires less direct involvement of rig floor personnel in potentially dangerous operations. the automated roughneck is an automated microprocessor-controlled version of the iron roughneck. 6 table of contents horizontal pipe transfer systems were introduced by the company in 1993. they include the pipe deck machine ( pdm ), which is used to manipulate and move tubulars while stored in a horizontal position; the pipe transfer conveyor ( ptc ), which transports sections of pipe to the rig floor; and a pickup laydown system ( pls ), which raises the pipe to a vertical position for transfer to a vertical racking system. these components may be employed separately, or incorporated together to form a complete horizontal racking system, known as the pipe transfer system ( pts ). pipe handling tools . the company pipe handling tools are designed to enhance the safety, efficiency and reliability of pipe handling operations. many of these tools have provided innovative methods of performing the designated task through mechanization of functions previously performed manually. the rig technology segment manufactures various tools used to grip, hold, raise, and lower pipe, and in the making up and breaking out of drill pipe, workstrings, casing and production tubulars including spinning wrenches, manual tongs, torque wrenches and kelly spinners. mud pumps. mud pumps are high pressure pumps located on the rig that force drilling mud down the drill pipe, through the drill bit, and up the space between the drill pipe and the drilled formation (the annulus ) back to the surface. these pumps, which generate pressures of up to 7,500 psi, must therefore be capable of displacing drilling fluids several thousand feet down and back up the well bore. the conventional mud pump design, known as the triplex pump, uses three reciprocating pistons oriented horizontally. the company has introduced the hex pump, which uses six pumping cylinders, versus the three used in the triplex pump. along with other design features, the greater number of cylinders reduces pulsations (or surges) and increases the output available from a given footprint. reduced pulsation is desirable where downhole measurement equipment is being used during the drilling process, as is often the case in directional drilling. hoisting systems . hoisting systems are used to raise or lower the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and to lower casing into the wellbore. the drawworks is the heart of the hoisting system. it is a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line, which is in turn connected to the drill stem at the top of the derrick. the drawworks also plays an important role in keeping the weight on the drill bit at a desired level. this task is particularly challenging on offshore drilling rigs, which are subject to wave motion. to address this, the company has introduced the ahd active heave drilling drawworks. the ahd drawworks uses computer-controlled motors to compensate for the motion experienced in offshore drilling operations. cranes. the company provides a comprehensive range of crane solutions, with purpose-built products for all segments of the oil and gas industry as well as many other markets. the company encompasses a broad collection of brand names with international recognition, and includes a large staff of engineers specializing in the design of cranes and related equipment. the product range extends from small cargo-handling cranes to the world largest marine cranes. in all, the company provides over twenty crane product lines that include standard model configurations as well as custom-engineered and specialty cranes. motion compensation systems . traditionally, motion compensation equipment is located on top of the drilling rig and serves to stabilize the bit on the bottom of the hole, increasing drilling effectiveness of floating offshore rigs by compensating for wave and wind action. the ahd drawworks, discussed above, was introduced to eliminate weight and improve safety, removing the compensator from the top of the rig and integrating it into the drawworks system. in addition to the ahd drawworks, the company has introduced an active heave compensation ( ahc ) system that goes beyond the capabilities of the ahd drawworks to handle the most severe weather. additionally, the company tensioning systems provide continuous axial tension to the marine riser pipe (larger diameter pipe which connects floating drilling rigs to the well on the ocean floor) and guide lines on floating drilling rigs, tension leg platforms and jack-up drilling rigs. blowout preventers (bops) . bops are devices used to seal the space between the drill pipe and the borehole and, if necessary, to also shear the drill pipe itself to prevent blowouts (uncontrolled flows of formation fluids and gases to the surface). the rig technology segment manufactures a wide array of bops used in various applications from deepwater offshore vessels to land rigs. ram and annular bops are back-up devices that are activated only if other techniques for controlling pressure in the wellbore are inadequate. when closed, these devices prevent normal rig drilling operations. ram bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing rams (thick heavy blocks of steel) against each other across the wellbore. specially designed packers seal around specific sizes of pipe in the wellbore, shear pipe in the wellbore or close off an open hole. annular bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing a rubber packing unit around the drill pipe or kelly or by sealing against itself if nothing is in the hole. in 1998, the company introduced the nxt tm ram type bop which eliminates door bolts, providing significant weight, rig-time, and space savings. its unique features make subsea operation more efficient through faster ram configuration changes. in 2004, the company introduced the lxt tm ram type of bop, which features many of the design elements of the nxt tm , but is targeted at the land market. over the past 5 years considerable focus has been placed on robustness and reliability in the fundamental design of the equipment with extensive testing being performed in the new r&amp;d facility opened in 2012. in 2013, the company acquired the t3 bop product line further expanding its market offering of reliable, field proven designs for land based drilling applications. 7 table of contents the shearmax tm line of low force bop shear rams released in 2010 add substantial tubular shearing capability to the company line of pressure control equipment, including the capability to shear large drill pipe tool joints, previously unheard of in the industry. this innovative shear blade design utilizes patented puncture technology to reduce the shearing pressures 50% or more and in some cases as much as five times lower. the shearmax blind shear provides a shear-and-seal design for drill pipe, while the casing and tjc shears address casing up to 16 od and most tool joints up to 2 wall thickness, respectively. derricks and substructures. drilling activities are carried out from a drilling rig. a drilling rig consists of one or two derricks; the substructure that supports the derrick(s); and the rig package, which consists of the various pieces of equipment discussed above. rig technology designs, fabricates and services derricks used in both onshore and offshore applications, and substructures used in onshore applications. the rig technology segment also works with shipyards in the fabrication of substructures for offshore drilling rigs. instrumentation . the company instrumentation business provides drilling rig operators real time measurement and monitoring of critical parameters required to improve rig safety and efficiency. in 1999, the company introduced its rigsense tm wellsite information system, which combines leading hardware and software technologies into an integrated drilling rig package. access of drilling data is provided to offsite locations, enabling company personnel to monitor drilling operations from an office environment, through a secure link. systems are both sold and rented, and are comprised of hazardous area sensors placed throughout the rig to measure critical drilling parameters; all networked back to a central command station for review, recording and interpretation. the company offers unique business integration services to directly integrate information into business applications that improves accuracy and assists drilling contractors in managing their drilling business. reports on drilling activities and processes are now provided from the rig site as a part of the drillsuite business solution to allow contractors to streamline administration by eliminating manual entry of data, promotes accurate payroll processing and invoicing, and includes asset tracking and preventive maintenance management through its rigms solution. the real time information provided also allows the company to advance the drilling process using advanced drilling algorithms and electronic controls such as our wildcat auto drilling system for better execution of the well plan, enhanced rates of penetration, reduced program costs, and improved wellbore quality. complementing the company surface solutions is a portfolio of down-hole instrumentation ( dhi ) products for both straight-hole and directional markets. key advancements in this area include the introduction of the company time saving e-totco electronic drift recorder, which serves as an electronic equivalent to the traditional mechanical drift tool that the company has offered since 1929. coiled tubing equipment . coiled tubing consists of flexible steel tubing manufactured in a continuous string and spooled on a reel. it can extend several thousand feet in length and is run in and out of the wellbore at a high rate of speed by a hydraulically operated coiled tubing unit. a coiled tubing unit is typically mounted on a truck, semi-trailer or skid (steel frames on which portable equipment is mounted to facilitate handling with cranes for offshore use) and consists of a hydraulically operated tubing reel or drum, an injector head which pushes or pulls the tubing in or out of the wellbore, and various power and control systems. coiled tubing is typically used with sophisticated pressure control equipment which permits the operator to perform workover operations on a live well. the rig technology segment manufactures and sells both coiled tubing units and the ancillary pressure control equipment used in these operations. through its acquisition of rolligon in late 2006, the company enhanced its portfolio by adding additional pressure pumping and coiled tubing equipment products. currently, most coiled tubing units are used in well remediation and completion applications. the company believes that advances in the manufacturing process of coiled tubing, tubing fatigue protection and the capability to manufacture larger diameter and increased wall thickness coiled tubing strings have resulted in increased uses and applications for coiled tubing products. for example, some well operators are now using coiled tubing in drilling applications such as slim hole re-entries of existing wells. the company engineered and manufactured the first coiled tubing units built specifically for coiled tubing drilling in 1996. generally, the rig technology segment supplies customers with the equipment and components necessary to use coiled tubing, which the customers typically purchase separately. the rig technology segment coiled tubing product line consists of coiled tubing units, coiled tubing pressure control equipment, pressure pumping equipment, snubbing units (which are units that force tubulars into a well when pressure is contained within the wellbore), nitrogen pumping equipment and cementing, stimulation, fracturing and blending equipment. wireline equipment . the company wireline products include wireline drum units, which consist of a spool or drum of wireline cable, mounted in a mobile vehicle or skid, which works in conjunction with a source of power (an engine mounted in the vehicle or within a separate power pack skid). the wireline drum unit is used to spool wireline cable into or out of a well, in order to perform surveys inside the well, sample fluids from the bottom of the well, retrieve or replace components from inside the well, or to perform other well remediation or survey operations. the wireline used may be slick line , which is conventional single-strand steel cable used to convey tools in or out of the well, or electric line , which contains an imbedded single-conductor or multi-conductor electrical line which permits communication between the surface and electronic instruments attached to the end of the wireline at the bottom of the well. 8 table of contents wireline units are usually used in conjunction with a variety of other pressure control equipment which permit safe access into wells while they are flowing and under pressure at the surface. the company engineers and manufactures a broad range of pressure control equipment for wireline operations, including wireline blowout preventers, strippers, packers, lubricators and grease injection units. additionally, the company makes wireline rigging equipment such as mast trucks. stimulation equipment . the company stimulation products include fracturing pumps, acid units, frac blenders, combo units, hydration, chemical additive systems as well as services and parts. the company acquired enerflow industries, inc. ( enerflow ) in may 2012. enerflow operates out of facilities in calgary, ab, tulsa, ok and houston, tx. enerflow produces frac pumpers (including truck, trailer, and skid mounted units) as well as cementing units, acidizing units, nitrogen units, and small amounts of well servicing rigs, integrated mud systems and coiled tubing equipment. turret mooring systems. the company acquired advanced production and loading plc ( apl ), in december 2010. apl, based in norway, designs and manufactures turret mooring systems and other products for fpsos and other offshore vessels and terminals. a turret mooring system consists of a geostatic part attached to the seabed and a rotating part integrated in the hull of the fpso, which are connected and allow the ship to weathervane (rotate) around the turret. flexible pipe systems. the company acquired nkt flexibles i/s ( nkt ) in april 2012. nkt designs and manufactures flexible pipe products and systems for the offshore oil and gas industry, including products associated with fpso and other offshore vessels, as well as subsea production systems including flow-lines and flexible risers. facilities. the company rig technology segment conducts manufacturing operations at major facilities in houston, galena park, sugar land, conroe, cedar park, anderson, fort worth and pampa, texas; duncan, oklahoma; orange, california; edmonton, canada; aberdeen, scotland; kristiansand, stavanger and arendal, norway; etten-leur and groot-ammers, the netherlands; carquefou, france; singapore; shanghai, china; dubai, uae; and ulsan, south korea. for a more detailed listing of significant facilities see item 2. properties . the rig technology segment maintains sales and service offices in most major oilfield markets, either directly or through agents. customers and competition. rig technology sells directly to drilling contractors, rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumping companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and also through distribution companies. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. the products of the rig technology segment are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or improved availability and delivery. the segment primary competitors are aker solutions; american electric technologies; american block; axon energy products; bentec (a division of abbot group); bomco; canrig (a division of nabors industries); cavins oil well tools; cameron international; coflexip (a division of technip); den-con tool company; forum energy technologies; general electric; global energy services; hitec products; honghua; huisman; liebherr; parveen industries; pason systems; omron corporation; rolls royce; siemens; stewart &amp; stevenson; soilmec and drillmec (a part of the trevi group); seatrax; tesco corporation; w&auml;rtsil&auml; and weatherford international. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting its rig technology segment are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of spare parts and consumables, breadth of product line and price. petroleum services &amp; supplies the company provides a broad range of support equipment, spare parts, consumables and services through the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment. petroleum services &amp; supplies segment sells directly and provides a variety of tubular services, composite tubing, and coiled tubing to oil and gas producers, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, and tubular processors, manufacturers and distributors. these include inspection and reclamation services for drill pipe, casing, production tubing, sucker rods and line pipe at drilling and workover rig locations, at yards owned by its customers, at steel mills and processing facilities that manufacture tubular goods, and at facilities which it owns. the company also provides internal coating of tubular goods at several coating plants worldwide and through licensees in certain locations. additionally, the company designs, manufactures and sells high pressure fiberglass and composite tubulars for use in corrosive applications and coiled tubing for use in well servicing applications and connections for large diameter conductor pipe. the company customers rely on tubular inspection services to avoid failure of tubing, casing, flowlines, pipelines and drill pipe. such tubular failures are expensive and in some cases catastrophic. the company customers rely on internal coatings of tubular goods to prolong the useful lives of tubulars and to increase the volumetric throughput of in-service tubular goods. the company customers sometimes use fiberglass or composite tubulars in lieu of conventional steel tubulars, due to the corrosion-resistant properties of fiberglass and other composite materials. tubular inspection and coating services are used most frequently in operations in high-temperature, deep, corrosive oil and gas environments. in selecting a provider of tubular inspection and tubular coating services, oil and gas operators consider such factors as reputation, experience, technology of products offered, reliability and price. 9 table of contents the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment also provides products and services that are used in the course of drilling oil and gas wells. the nov downhole business sells and rents bits, drilling motors and specialized downhole tools that are incorporated into the drill stem during drilling operations, and are also used during fishing, well intervention, re-entry, and well completion operations. the wellsite services business provides products and services such as drilling fluids, highly-engineered solids control equipment, waste handling and treatment, completion fluids, power generation equipment, and other ancillary well site equipment and services. wellsite services is also engaged in barium sulfate ( barite ) mining operations in the state of nevada. barite is an inert powder material used as the primary weighting agent in drilling fluids. additionally, efficient separation of drill cuttings enables the re-use of often costly drilling fluids. the pumps &amp; expendables business provides centrifugal, reciprocating, and progressing cavity pumps and pump expendables ( pumps &amp; expendables ) into the global oil and gas and industrial markets. solids control and waste management . the company is engaged in the provision of highly-engineered equipment, products and services which separate and manage drill cuttings produced by the drilling process ( solids control ). drill cuttings are usually contaminated with petroleum or drilling fluids, and must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. fluids services. the company acquired the spirit group of companies in may 2009 ( spirit ) and ambar in january 2010. both are engaged in the provision of drilling fluids, completion fluids and other related services. this division is also engaged in barite mining operations. drilling fluids are designed and used to maintain well bore stability while drilling, control downhole pressure, drill bit lubrication, and as a drill cuttings displacement medium. completion fluids are used to clean the well bore and stimulate production. portable power. the acquisition of welch sales and service, inc. in 2008 placed wellsite services in the power generation and temperature control business. the portable power division provides rental equipment for use in the upstream oil and gas industry, refinery and petrochemical, construction, events, disaster relief and other industries. tubular coating . the company develops, manufactures and applies its proprietary tubular coatings, known as tube-kote &reg; coatings, to new and used tubulars. tubular coatings help prevent corrosion of tubulars by providing a tough plastic shield to isolate steel from corrosive oilfield fluids such as co 2 , h 2 and brine. delaying or preventing corrosion extends the life of existing tubulars, reduces the frequency of well remediation and reduces expensive interruptions in production. in addition, coatings are designed to increase the fluid flow rate through tubulars by decreasing or eliminating paraffin and scale build-up, which can reduce or block oil flow in producing wells. the smooth inner surfaces of coated tubulars often increase the fluid through-put on certain high-rate oil and gas wells by reducing friction and turbulence. the company reputation for supplying quality internal coatings is an important factor in its business, since the failure of coatings can lead to expensive production delays and premature tubular failure. in 2005, the company created a 60%-owned joint venture in china with the huabei petroleum administration bureau, which coats chinese produced drill pipe using the company proprietary coatings. in 2007, the joint venture opened a second coating plant in jiangyin city, china. in addition to the company tk tm coatings, it also has complementary corrosion control products and services including tk liners, tubo-wrap , and kc-ipc connections. tk liners are fiberglass-reinforced tubes which are inserted into steel line pipe. this safeguards the pipe against corrosion and extends the life of the pipeline. in conjunction with the thru-kote tm connection system customers can weld a sleeve for a continuous fiberglass lined pipeline. tubo-wrap is a high performance external coating that protects the pipe during installation and from corrosion once the pipeline is in place. kc-ipc connections use a modified american petroleum institute ( api ) coupling to create a gas-tight seal that prevents corrosion and turbulence in the critical connections of tubulars while protecting the internal plastic coating at the highly loaded contact points. tubular inspection. newly manufactured pipe sometimes contains serious defects that are not detected at the mill. in addition, pipe can be damaged in transit and during handling prior to use at the well site. as a result, exploration and production companies often have new tubulars inspected before they are placed in service to reduce the risk of tubular failures during drilling, completion, or production of oil and gas wells. used tubulars are inspected by the company to detect service-induced flaws after the tubulars are removed from operation. used drill pipe and used tubing inspection programs allow operators to replace defective lengths, thereby prolonging the life of the remaining pipe and saving the customer the cost of unnecessary tubular replacements and expenses related to tubular failures. tubular inspection services employ all major non-destructive inspection techniques, including electromagnetic, ultrasonic, magnetic flux leakage and gamma ray. these inspection services are provided both by mobile units which work at the wellhead as used tubing is removed from a well, and at fixed site tubular inspection locations. the company provides an ultrasonic inspection service for detecting potential fatigue cracks in the end area of used drill pipe, the portion of the pipe that traditionally has been the most difficult to inspect. tubular inspection facilities also offer a wide range of related services, such as api thread inspection, ring and plug gauging, and a complete line of reclamation services necessary to return tubulars to useful service, including tubular cleaning and straightening, hydrostatic testing and re-threading. 10 table of contents in addition, the company applies hardbanding material to drill pipe, to enhance its wear characteristics and reduce downhole casing wear as a result of the drilling process. in 2002, the company introduced its proprietary line of hardbanding material, tcs 8000 . the company also cleans, straightens, inspects and coats sucker rods at 11 facilities throughout the western hemisphere. additionally, new sucker rods are inspected before they are placed into service, to avoid premature failure, which can cause the oil well operator to have to pull and replace the sucker rod. machining services. in 2005, the company acquired turner oilfield services and expanded our product offering into thread repair, tool joint rebuilding and sub manufacturing. since then the company has made strategic acquisitions of hendershot and mid-south and has expanded its machining services internally to develop a one-stop-shop concept for its drill pipe customers. thread repair services include rotary shouldered and premium connections. the company is licensed to perform thread repair services for api and proprietary connections. tool joint rebuilding is a unique process to restore worn drill pipe tool joints, drill collars and heavy weight drill pipe to the original specifications to extend the service life of those assets. the company manufactures downhole tools and is api licensed for this process in several locations. in november 2009, the company acquired south seas inspection (s) pte. ltd., ( ssi ) and certain assets of its brazilian affiliate. ssi provides a wide array of oilfield services including rig and derrick construction, derrick inspection and maintenance, drops surveys and load testing at the rig through the use of rope access technicians. this acquisition adds multiple new services and allows the company to grow this business by leveraging existing relationships and infrastructure. these operations are based out of singapore with branch offices in baku, azerbaijan and aktau, kazkhstan as well as a representative office in vietnam. the highly trained workforce is completely mobile and provides these services worldwide. mill systems and sales. the company engineers and fabricates inspection equipment for steel mills, which it sells and rents. the equipment is used for quality control purposes to detect defects in the pipe during the high-speed manufacturing process. each piece of mill inspection equipment is designed to customer specifications and is installed and serviced by the company. drill pipe products. as a result of its april 2008 acquisition of grant prideco, the company manufactures and sells a variety of drill stem products used for the drilling of oil and gas wells. the principal products sold by drill pipe products are: (i) drill pipe, (ii) drill collars and heavyweight drill pipe and (iii) drill stem accessories including tool joints. drill pipe is the principal tool, other than the rig, required for the drilling of an oil or gas well. its primary purpose is to connect the above-surface drilling rig to the drill bit. a drilling rig will typically have an inventory of 10,000 to 30,000 feet of drill pipe depending on the size and service requirements of the rig. joints of drill pipe are connected to each other with a welded-on tool joint to form what is commonly referred to as the drill string or drill stem. when a drilling rig is operating, motors mounted on the rig rotate the drill pipe and drill bit. in addition to connecting the drilling rig to the drill bit, drill pipe provides a mechanism to steer the drill bit and serves as a conduit for drilling fluids and cuttings. drill pipe is a capital good that can be used for the drilling of multiple wells. once a well is completed, the drill pipe may be used again and again to drill other wells until the drill pipe becomes damaged or wears out. in recent years, the depth and complexity of the wells customers drill, as well as the specifications and requirements of the drill pipe they purchase, have substantially increased. a majority of the drill pipe sold is required to meet specifications exceeding minimum api standards. the company offers a broad line of premium drilling products designed for the offshore, international and domestic drilling markets. the company premium drilling products include its proprietary lines of xt tm and turbotorque tm connections and large diameter drill pipe that delivers hydraulic performance superior to standard sizes. drill collars are used in the drilling process to place weight on the drill bit for better control and penetration. drill collars are located directly above the drill bit and are manufactured from a solid steel bar to provide necessary weight. heavyweight drill pipe is a thick-walled seamless tubular product that is less rigid than a drill collar. heavyweight drill pipe provides a gradual transition between the heavier drill collar and the lighter drill pipe. the company also provides subs, pup joints (short and odd-sized tubular products) and other drill stem accessories. these products all perform special functions within the drill string as part of the drilling process. 11 table of contents nov intelliserv. nov intelliserv is a joint venture between the company and schlumberger, ltd. in which the company holds a 55% interest and maintains operational control. nov intelliserv provides wellbore data transmission services that enable high-speed communication up and down the drill string throughout drilling and completion operations that are undertaken during the construction of oil and gas wells. nov intelliserv core product, the intelliserv tm broadband network , was commercialized in february 2006 and incorporates various proprietary mechanical and electrical components into the company premium drilling tubulars to enable data transmission rates that are currently up to 20,000 times faster than mud pulse, the current industry standard. the intelliserv broadband network also permits virtually unlimited real-time actuation of drilling tools and sensors at the bottom of the drill string, a process that conventionally requires the time consuming return of tools to the surface. nov intelliserv offers its products and services on a rental basis to oil and gas operators. voest-alpine tubulars ( vat ) . vat is a joint venture between the company and the austrian based voestalpine group. the company has a 50.01% investment in the joint venture which is located in kindberg, austria. vat owns a tubular mill with an annual capacity of approximately 380,000 metric tons and is the primary supplier of green tubes for our u.s. based production. in addition to producing green tubes, vat produces seamless tubular products for the octg market and non-octg products used in the automotive, petrochemical, construction, mining, tunneling and transportation industries. vat is accounted for under the equity-method of accounting due to the minority owner having substantive participating rights. under a limited partnership operating agreement the company has no rights to unilaterally take any action with respect to its investment and the day to day operations of vat are under the direction of a management board, whose members are determined principally by the minority owner. the management board is responsible for planning, production, sales and general personal matters, which represent substantive participating rights that overcome the presumption that the company should consolidate its 50.01% investment. fiberglass &amp; composite tubulars. when compared to conventional carbon steel and even corrosion-resistant alloys, resin-impregnated fiberglass and other modern plastic composites often exhibit superior resistance to corrosion. some producers manage the corrosive fluids sometimes found in oil and gas fields by utilizing composite or fiberglass tubing, casing and line pipe in the operations of their fields. in 1997, the company acquired fiber glass systems, a leading provider of high pressure fiberglass tubulars used in oilfield applications, to further serve the tubular corrosion prevention needs of its customers. fiber glass systems has manufactured fiberglass pipe since 1968 under the name star tm , and was the first manufacturer of high-pressure fiberglass pipe to be licensed by the api in 1992. through further acquisitions and investments in technologies, the company has extended its fiberglass and composite tubing offering into industrial and marine applications, in addition to its oilfield market. in 2011, the company acquired ameron international corporation ( ameron ) which allowed it to expand its fiberglass &amp; composite tubulars business. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding acquisitions made by the company in 2011. ameron fiberglass-composite pipe business, which is now part of the company fiber glass systems business, develops, manufactures and markets filament-wound and molded fiberglass pipe and fittings. these products are used by a wide range of process industries, including industrial, petroleum, chemical processing and petrochemical industries, and for service station piping systems, but predominantly aboard marine vessels, fpsos and offshore oil platforms, and are marketed as an alternative to metallic piping systems which ultimately fail under corrosive operating conditions. in 2012, the company acquired fiberspar corporation ( fiberspar ). see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding acquisitions made by the company in 2012. fiberspar, which is now part of the company fiber glass systems business, manufactures and sells fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe to the oil and gas industry. this fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe provides a reliable, corrosion-resistant, cost-effective solution for tubulars used during the production and transportation of oil and gas. fiberspar has manufacturing plants in houston, tx and johnstown, colorado, with 17 deployment centers (stocking locations) for its products in the u.s., canada and australia. coiled tubing. coiled tubing provides a number of significant functional advantages over the principal alternatives of conventional drill pipe and workover pipe. coiled tubing allows faster tripping, since the coiled tubing can be reeled quickly on and off a drum and in and out of a wellbore. in addition, the small size of the coiled tubing unit compared to an average workover rig or drilling rig reduces preparation time at the well site. coiled tubing permits a variety of workover and other operations to be performed without having to pull the existing production tubing from the well and allows ease of operation in horizontal or highly deviated wells. thus, operations using coiled tubing can be performed much more quickly and, in many instances, at a significantly lower cost. finally, use of coiled tubing generally allows continuous production of the well, eliminating the need to temporarily stop the flow of hydrocarbons. as a result, the economics of a workover are improved because the well can continue to produce hydrocarbons and thus produce revenues while the well treatments are occurring. continuous production also reduces the risk of formation damage which can occur when the flow of fluids is stopped or isolated. under normal operating conditions, the coiled tubing string must be replaced every three to four months. the company designs, manufactures, and sells coiled tubing under the quality tubing brand name at its mill in houston, texas. 12 table of contents nov downhole. the nov downhole business unit combines a wide array of drilling and intervention tool product lines with the drill bit, coring services, borehole enlargement and drilling dynamics/drilling optimization service lines previously consolidated within the reedhycalog business unit of grant prideco. the broad spectrum of bottom hole assembly ( bha ) components offered by nov downhole is unique within the industry and is the result of the company strategic consolidation of several key acquisitions, including: nql energy services, inc., a leading manufacturer and provider of downhole drilling tools; gammaloy holdings, l.p., a manufacturer and provider of non-magnetic drill collars and other related products; robbins &amp; myers, a manufacturer and provider of power section, and the reedhycalog, corion, and andergauge business units of grant prideco, a global leader in the design, manufacture and provision of drill bits, variable gauge stabilizers, hydraulically and mechanically actuated under-reamers, specialty coring services and downhole vibration mitigation services. nov downhole manufactures fixed cutter and roller cone drill bits and services its customer base through a technical sales and marketing network in virtually every significant oil and gas producing region of the world. it provides fixed-cutter bit technology under various brand names including seeker directional drill bits, fusetek hybrid drill bits, duradiamond impregnated bits and titan ultra aimed at larger bit applications. one of its most important fixed cutter drill bit innovations is a patented manufacturing process that has significantly enhanced the capability of polycrystalline diamond (pdc) cutters. the trex , raptor , duraforce xd and helios family of cutter technologies increase abrasion resistance (wear life) and thermal abrasion resistance without sacrificing impact resistance (toughness). this technology provides a diamond surface that maintains a sharp, low-wear cutting edge, producing drilling results that exceed conventional standards for pdc bit performance. the company licenses its manufacturing process to most other providers of pdc bits. the company produces roller-cone bits for a wide variety of oil, gas and geothermal drilling applications. roller-cone bits consist of three rotating cones that have cutting elements, which penetrate the formation through a crushing action as the cones rotate in conjunction with the rotation of the drill pipe or drive system. this cutting mechanism is more suitable than that of fixed cutter bits when drilling large holes, very soft shales, harder formations, or where the geology is changing. nov downhole manufactures roller-cone bits with milled teeth for soft formations and with tungsten carbide inserts for harder formations. it also manufactures a unique patented line of bits using a powder-metal forging technology, sold under the brand tuffcutter . it markets its roller-cone products and technology globally under various brand names including rockforce , titan and tuffcutter. nov downhole designs, manufacturers and services a wide array of downhole motors used in straight hole, directional, slim hole, and coiled tubing drilling applications. these motors are sold or leased under the nov downhole brand name. the company also maintains a wide variety of motor power sections, including its proprietary powerplus and hemidril and robbins and myers ert rotors and stators which it incorporates into its own motors as well as sells to third parties. downhole drilling motors utilize hydraulic horsepower from the drilling fluid pumped down the drill stem to develop torque at the bit. motors are capable of achieving higher rotary velocities than can generally be achieved using conventional surface rotary equipment. motors are often used in conjunction with high speed pdc bits to improve rates of penetration. a key growth segment interlinked with the drilling motor business is power sections. nov downhole is one of the largest power section providers globally with the broadest portfolio of technology enabling drilling efficiency advances for every market segment. our global power section manufacturing and supply footprint enables improved asset utilization for our customers by shortening service deliveries times. the power section product line sells products (rotors and stators) and services (relines for stators and re-surfacing for rotors) to 3rd party customers and the nov downhole motor rental fleet. this is offered for both conventional and ert power sections. with the natural evolution of mature fields around the world, nov downhole is well positioned to address the sustained growth of intervention and well workovers with a comprehensive offering of industry leading bowen brand fishing and thru-tubing tools. we sell and rent fishing and thru-tubing tools to perform retrieval of stuck tools, remove debris, mill bridge plugs and other devices, cut and retrieve tubing and casing, manipulate well flow control devices and much more. our recently launched terraforce combination coiled tubing milling jar is proving to be one of our most successful product launches although that can be largely attributed to plug milling work in hydraulically fractured wells. 13 table of contents with the unparalleled growth we have seen in the unconventional hydrocarbons segment over the last decade, the need for our customers to be able to work the bha to bottom in long horizontal sections has proved to be crucial. this is why we have seen unheralded growth and phenomenal demand for nov agitator axial oscillation tool, most notably in the north american shale plays. the agitator oscillation tool gently oscillates the bottom hole assembly to significantly improve weight transfer and reduce friction. this improves weight transfer and reduces stick-slip in all modes of drilling, but especially when oriented drilling with a steerable motor. the agitator oscillation tool provides bha excitement to improve weight transfer to the bit. extends the boundaries of extended reach and horizontal drilling with motors. the agitator tool has also been similarly successful when deployed on coiled tubing to enable optimum weight-on-tool perform post-fracturing milling and well cleanout work. additionally a new application of fishing-with-agitator and associated tools is now proliferating worldwide with very high levels of success, the attributes of the agitator (i.e. low impact, high frequency,) ideally compliments the high impact low frequency of traditional fishing jars. nov downhole also manufactures and sells drilling jars, shock tools, bumper subs and a range of other conventional drilling tools such as non-magnetic drill collars. drilling jars are placed in the drill string, where they can be used to generate a sudden, jarring motion to free the drill string should it become stuck in the wellbore during the drilling process. this jarring motion is generated using hydraulic and/or mechanical force provided at the surface. through its coring services business line, nov downhole offers coring solutions that enable the extraction of actual rock samples from a drilled well bore and allow geologists to examine the formations at the surface. one of the coring services utilized is the company unique corion express system which allows the customer to drill and core a well without tripping pipe. corion express utilizes wireline retrievable drilling and coring elements which allow the system to transform from a drilling assembly to a coring assembly and also to wireline retrieve the geological core. this capability enables customers to save significant time and expense during the drilling and coring process. nov downhole manufactures, sells and rents electronic tools (etools) to provide directional and drilling dynamics data to the drilling service companies and o&amp;g operators while they are drilling a well. directional sensors, steering tools, magnetic multi-shot tools and electromagnetic measurement-while-drilling systems are produced by nov downhole. these directional etools, provide a downhole measurement of the azimuth (magnetic north), well inclination and tool face measurements and store the data in memory or utilize a telemetry pathway (mud pulse, conductive wireline, electromagnetic or intelliserv wired drill pipe) to transmit the downhole data to the surface. the drilling dynamics tools measures downhole vibration, weight, torque, pressure, temperature, bending and rotational speed and either stores the data in memory or utilizes a telemetry pathway to get the downhole data to the surface. at the surface this data is analyzed and utilized to optimize the well trajectory and to improve the drilling rate-of-penetration by minimizing the bottom hole assembly vibration and by optimizing the drilling weight, torque and rpm. nov downhole offers a wide variety of industry leading technologies to enable customers to enlarge the diameter of a drilled hole below a restriction (typically a casing string) via its borehole enlargement business line. borehole enlargement services are typically utilized in deep water drilling where customers wish to maximize the size of each successive casing string in order to preserve a relatively large completion hole size through which to produce hydrocarbons from the reservoir. borehole enlargement is also employed where customers wish to reduce the fluid velocity and pressure within the well-bore annulus to reduce the risk of formation erosion or accidental fracture. borehole enlargement provides bi-centered drill bits, expandable reamers (marketed under the anderreamer brand name) and associated equipment along with well-site service technicians who deliver 24 hour support during hole enlargement operations. the integrated solutions &amp; optimization group combines two initiatives to add more value to the nov downhole portfolio the ads expertise in downhole vibration measurement analysis, and the strategic integrated solution methodology for establishing a systems approach to solving client challenges. this high performing team uses optimization tools and personnel to establish value differentiation between nov downhole products and those of the competition. the focus is on the client needs and buying habits, with the intent of maximizing our participation in the current market and being the preferred supplier in a down market. this approach can be utilized strategically within conventional districts to grow revenue / market share, but also is a key foundation for the overall tiered solutions strategy where we start to supply solutions to drilling challenges, not just tools. the performance drilling and directional product lines within nov downhole, focus on technologies that can be used in the bha in order to increase performance via higher rates of penetration (rop), deliver a smoother borehole, and / or reduce shock and vibration. technologies include the v-stab vibration damping tool, and the fluidhammer drilling tool which delivers higher rop in harder drilling formations. this group also develops rotary steerable systems such as the vertical drilling tool (vdt) which is used to drill vertical holes autonomously and the lateral drilling tool (ldt) to improve extended reach drilling. 14 table of contents nov downhole managed pressure drilling (mpd) is a newly formed team to support the drilling challenges of our customers and further safety and efficiency to the industry by offering an array of products from nov downhole and as well as other business segments of nov. mpd utilizes specialty equipment and support services to enable improved kick detection and as well broaden the obtainable reserves of many clients by using chokes, manifolds, rotating control devices, continuous circulation systems, downhole sensors and optimized control systems. applications of the technology are in use within the shale gas fields to ultra-deep-water and expanding rapidly. pumps &amp; expendables . the company pumps &amp; expendables business designs, manufactures, and sells pumps that are used in oil and gas drilling operations, well service operations, production applications, as well as industrial applications. these pumps include reciprocating positive displacement and centrifugal pumps. high pressure mud pumps are sold within the rig technology segment. these pumps are sold as individual units and unitized packages with drivers, controls and piping. the company also manufactures fluid end expendables (liners, valves, pistons, and plungers), fluid end modules and a complete line of dies and inserts for pipe handling. the company offers popular industry brand names like wheatley, gaso, and omega reciprocating pumps, halco centrifugal pumps, petroleum expendable products ( pep ), and phoenix energy products. the company also manufactures a line of commodity and high end valves, chokes, wellhead, and flow line equipment used in both production, pipeline, and drilling applications. additionally, these products are used to manufacture frac trees and manifolds which are both rented and sold, fabrication of choke and kill, standpipe, cement, and production manifolds. the company manufactures its products in houston, odessa and marble falls, texas; tulsa and mcalester, oklahoma; scott, louisiana; newcastle, england, edinburgh, scotland, pune, india, and buenos aires, argentina. the company manufactures production process equipment such as heater treaters, tanks, pressure vessels, produced water treatment, and sand handling equipment. this is used in both onshore and offshore applications. this equipment is manufactured in montrose, scotland, harvey, louisiana, odessa and san angelo, texas. xl systems. the company xl systems product line offers the customer an integrated package of large-bore tubular products and services for offshore wells. this product line includes the company proprietary line of wedge thread marine connections on large-bore tubulars and related engineering and design services. the company provides this product line for drive pipe, jet strings and conductor casing. the company also offers weld-on connections and service personnel in connection with the installation of these products. in 2007, the company completed development of its high-strength viper weld-on connector to permit the company to penetrate traditional markets that do not require the enhanced performance of its proprietary wedge-thread design. customers and competition. customers for the petroleum services &amp; supplies tubular products and services include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield equipment and product distributors and other manufacturers, oilfield service companies, steel mills, and other industrial companies. the company competitors in tubular services include, among others, baker hughes; drill pipe masters; frank international; future pipe; halliburton; hanwei; hilong; patterson tubular services; precision tube (a division of tenaris); shawcor; schlumberger; superior energy services; texas steel conversion; vallourec &amp; mannesmann and weatherford international. in addition, the company competes with a number of smaller regional competitors in tubular inspection. certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the company operates have adopted policies or regulations that may give local nationals in these countries certain competitive advantages. within the company corrosion control products, certain substitutes such as non-metallic tubulars, corrosion inhibitors, corrosion resistant alloys, cathodic protection systems, and non-metallic liner systems also compete with the company products. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting this business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of products, spare parts and consumables, breadth of product line and price. the primary customers for drilling products and services offered by the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil companies. competitors in drilling services include aggreko; baker hughes; cameron international; circor international; corpro (a division of als); halliburton; hunting; derrick equipment company; fluid systems; fmc technologies; forum energy technologies; logan oil tools; newpark resources; schoeller bleckmann; step oiltools; varel; ulterra drilling technologies; roper industries; schlumberger; southwest oilfield products and weir group. there are also large number of regional competitors and the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment sells its drilling products and services into highly competitive markets. management believes that on-site support is becoming an important competitive element in this market, and that the principal competitive factors affecting the business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, product availability and technology, breadth of product line and price. 15 table of contents distribution &amp; transmission distribution services (nov wilson). the distribution services business unit is a market leader in the provision of supply chain management services to drilling contractors, exploration and production, pipeline operators and downstream energy processors companies around the world. through its network of approximately 400 branch locations worldwide, this business unit stocks and sells oilfield products including pipe, consumable maintenance, repair and operating supplies, valves, fittings, flanges and spare parts, all of which are needed throughout the drilling, completion and production process, midstream infrastructure development as well as refining and petrochemical businesses. the supplies and equipment stocked by our branches are customized to meet changing and varied local customer demands. the distribution services business unit also provides one-stop-shop value propositions within the oil and gas exploration and production market in targeted areas of artificial lift, measurement and controls, valving and actuation, and flow optimization. additionally, distribution provides warehouse management, vendor integration and various inventory management services. through focused effort, the business unit has built expertise in providing applications engineering, systems and parts integration, optimization solutions, and after-sales service and support. distribution services supply chain solutions for customers include outsourcing the functions of procurement, inventory and warehouse management, logistics, business process, and performance metrics reporting. this solution allows the business unit to leverage the flexible infrastructure of its sap erp system to streamline the acquisition process from requisition to procurement to payment, by digitally managing approval routing and workflow, and by providing robust reporting functionality. with its recent acquisitions, more than 80% of distribution services segment sales were in the united states and canada. the remainder comes from key international markets in latin america, the north sea, middle east, africa and the far east. the distribution services business unit has now expanded into oilfields in over 20 countries. approximately 10% of its revenue is from the resale of goods manufactured by other segments within the company. the balance is from the sale of goods manufactured by third parties. distribution services increases revenue and enhances customer alliances by continuously expanding product and service solutions and creating differentiated value propositions. the business unit leverages its extensive purchasing power to reduce the cost of goods. it is strategically and selectively expanding its sourcing network into low cost countries globally. transmission. the transmission business unit supplies products and services used in the construction of water pipelines, lining, progressing cavity pumps, grinders, filters, and screens used in industrial applications, and artificial lift equipment and solutions used for increased oil and gas production. within the transmission business unit the infrastructure products business manufactures concrete cylinder pipe, prestressed concrete cylinder pipe, steel pipe and reinforced concrete pipe for water transmission, storm and industrial waste water and sewage collection. products are marketed directly using the company own personnel, typically through competitive bidding. the company competes with several other manufacturers and also with alternative products such as ductile iron, plastic, and clay pipe; but ordinarily these other materials do not offer the full diameter range produced by the company. this business unit also includes the manufacturing of polyvinyl chloride and polyethylene sheet lining for the protection of concrete pipe and cast-in-place concrete structures from the corrosive effects of sewer gases, acids and industrial chemicals. the infrastructure products group also supplies ready-mix concrete, crushed and sized basaltic aggregates, dune sand and concrete pipe, primarily to the construction industry in hawaii. ample raw materials for the aggregates and concrete products are typically available locally in hawaii, and the business has exclusive rights to quarries containing many years reserves. the infrastructure products group also manufactures and markets concrete and steel poles for highway, street and outdoor area lighting and for traffic signals across the u.s. within its market, there are competitors for each of the business unit products. sales of poles are nationwide, but with a stronger concentration in the western and southeastern u.s. the marketing of poles is handled by the business own sales force and by outside sales agents. competition for poles is mainly based on price and quality, but with some consideration for service and delivery. within the transmission business unit, the mono business serves its customers in various industrial and oil and gas markets by design, manufacturing and distributing key products including progressing cavity pumps, grinders, screens, filters, well-head drives, hydraulic pumping units, rod pumps, plunger lift systems and production automation systems and engineering related systems solutions. this business is highly diversified through its presence in oil and gas and industrial markets, which include waste water treatment, mining, chemical processing, paper and pulp, agriculture, food and beverage, among others. the mono business supports its international market and customer base through a mixed channel to market model, which includes both direct sales and separate distribution partnership relationships and through national oilwell varco own network of supply branches. mono is strengthening its offering by adding new artificial lift technologies, as well as measurement and controls competencies. the 2013 acquisition of robbins &amp; myers included the addition of the moyno product line to the mono business, expanding the progressive cavity pump product line. additionally, the acquisition expanded the business to include industrial mixing equipment, including mixers, agitators, and heat exchangers. 16 table of contents as part of the robbins &amp; myers acquisition, the transmission business unit also increased its product offerings to include glass lined reactor and storage vessels for use in the chemical, pharmaceutical, and agrichemical markets. customers and competition. the primary customers for distribution services include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, refineries, pipeline operators, downstream energy processors, manufacturing companies and industrial companies. customers for transmission include local, state and federal agencies, developers, general contractors, major and independent oil and gas companies, waste water treatment plants, underground mines, paper mills, pharmaceutical companies, chemical companies and other industrial companies. competitors for distribution services include apex distribution (now part of russel metals); bell supply; caterpillar logistics; edgen murray (now a part of sumitomo); ferguson enterprises; grainger; mrc global; msc industrial supply; wesco international and a number of large regional and product-specific competitors. competitors for transmission include northwestern pipe company; west coast pipe company and a number of regional competitors (in water pipelines), valmont; skycast and stresscrete and number of regional competitors (in pole products), dedietrich; thaletec, 3v tech and a number of regional competitors (in glass-lined equipment) and dover; lufkin industries (now a part of general electric); kudu; netzsch; pcm and weatherford international and other regional and industry focused competitors (in pumps and mixers). 2013 acquisitions and other investments on february 20, 2013, the company completed its acquisition of all of the shares of robbins &amp; myers ( r&amp;m ), inc., a u.s.-based designer and manufacturer of products and systems for the oil and gas industry. under the merger agreement for this transaction, r&amp;m shareholders received $60.00 in cash for each common share for an aggregate purchase price of $2,378 million, net of cash acquired. the company has included the financial results of r&amp;m in its consolidated financial statements as of the date of acquisition with components of the r&amp;m operations included in the company rig technology, petroleum services &amp; supplies and distribution &amp; transmission segments. the company believes the acquisition of r&amp;m will advance its strategic goal of providing a broader selection of products and services to its customers. during 2013, in addition to robbins &amp; myers, the company made the following acquisitions: acquisition form operating segment date of transaction fidmash stock* petroleum services &amp; supplies april 2013 novmash stock* petroleum services &amp; supplies april 2013 itasco precision ltd. stock rig technology april 2013 bbj tools inc. asset petroleum services &amp; supplies june 2013 moyno de mexico s.a. de c.v. stock* distribution &amp; transmission august 2013 * purchased the remaining portion of joint venture. the company paid an aggregate purchase price of $2,397 million, net of cash acquired for acquisitions in 2013. 17 table of contents seasonal nature of the company business historically, the level of some of the company segments have followed seasonal trends to some degree. in general, the rig technology segment has not experienced significant seasonal fluctuation although orders for new equipment and aftermarket spare parts may be modestly affected by holiday schedules. there can be no guarantee that seasonal effects will not influence future sales in this segment. in canada, the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment has typically realized high first quarter activity levels, as operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling and production areas. in past years, certain canadian businesses within petroleum services &amp; supplies and distribution &amp; transmission have declined during the second quarter due to warming weather conditions which resulted in thawing, softer ground, difficulty accessing drill sites, and road bans that curtailed drilling activity ( canadian breakup ). however, these segments have typically rebounded in the third and fourth quarter. petroleum services &amp; supplies activity in both the u.s. and canada sometimes increases during the third quarter and then peaks in the fourth quarter as operators spend the remaining drilling and/or production capital budgets for that year. petroleum services &amp; supplies revenues in the rocky mountain region sometimes decline in the late fourth quarter or early first quarter due to harsh winter weather. the segment fiberglass and composite tubulars business in china has typically declined in the first quarter due to the impact of weather on manufacturing and installation operations, and due to business slowdowns associated with the chinese new year. the company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue. however, there can be no guarantee that spending by the company customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past or that spending by other customers will remain the same as in prior years. marketing and distribution network substantially all of our rig technology capital equipment and spare parts sales, and a large portion of our smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through our direct sales force and distribution service centers. sales to foreign oil companies are often made with or through agent or representative arrangements. products within petroleum service &amp; supplies are rented and sold worldwide through our own sales force and through commissioned representatives. distribution &amp; transmission sales are made directly through our network of distribution service centers. the rig technology segment customers include drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumpers, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. rig technology purchases can represent significant capital expenditures, and are often sold as part of a rig fabrication or major rig refurbishment package. sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the company bids jointly with other related product and services providers, such as rig fabrication yards and rig design firms. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment customers for tubular services include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, oilfield equipment and product distributors and manufacturers, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield service companies, pressure pumpers, pipeline operators, pipe mills, manufacturers and processors, and other industrial companies. certain tubular inspection and tubular coating products and services often are incorporated as a part of a tubular package sold by tubular supply stores to end users. the company primarily has direct operations in the international marketplace, but operates through agents in certain markets. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment customers for drilling services are predominantly major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, providers of drilling fluids, and other oilfield service companies. this segment operates sales and distribution facilities at strategic locations worldwide to service areas with high drilling activity. strategically located service and engineering facilities provide specialty repair and maintenance services to customers. sales of capital equipment are sometimes made through rig fabricators, and often are bid as part of a rig fabrication package or rig refurbishment package. sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the company bids jointly with other related service providers. the distribution &amp; transmission segment distribution services sales are made through our network of distribution service centers. customers for our products and services include drilling and other service contractors, exploration and production companies, supply companies and nationally owned or controlled drilling and production companies. the distribution &amp; transmission segment customers for transmission products and services primarily include local, state and federal agencies, developers and general contractors. the company foreign operations, which include significant operations in canada, europe, the far east, the middle east, africa and latin america, are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including foreign currency exchange risks and uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum 18 table of contents companies located in some of the countries in which the company operates have adopted policies (or are subject to governmental policies) giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of such policies, the company relies on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationship between the company and such government-owned petroleum companies. although the company has not experienced any material problems in foreign countries arising from nationalistic policies, political instability, economic instability or currency restrictions, there can be no assurance that such a problem will not arise in the future. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding geographic revenue information. research and new product development and intellectual property the company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights. as of december 31, 2013, the company held a substantial number of united states patents and had several patent applications pending. as of this date, the company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to inventions covered by the united states patents. additionally, the company maintains a substantial number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets. expiration dates of such patents range from 2014 to 2033. the company does not expect significant adverse effects as patents expire. although the company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. the company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenues from new products. engineering and manufacturing the manufacturing processes for the company products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components and testing. most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel. the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. primary manufacturing facilities for the rig technology segment are located in houston, galena park, sugar land, conroe, cedar park, anderson, san angelo, fort worth and pampa, texas; duncan, oklahoma; orange, california; edmonton, canada; aberdeen, scotland; kristiansand, stavanger and arendal, norway; etten-leur and groot-ammers, the netherlands; carquefou, france; kalundborg and brondby, denmark; singapore; shanghai, china; dubai, uae; ulsan, south korea; port elizabeth and cape town, south africa; and luanda, angola. the petroleum services &amp; supplies segment manufactures or assembles the equipment and products which it rents and sells to customers, and which it uses in providing services. downhole tools are manufactured at facilities in houston, texas; manchester, england; dubai, uae; maca&eacute;, brazil and singapore. drill bits are manufactured at facilities in conroe, texas; stonehouse, u.k; and jurong, singapore. drill stem technology development and drill pipe are manufactured at facilities in navasota, texas; veracruz, mexico; jurong, singapore; and baimi town, jiangyan and jiangsu, china. solids control equipment and screens are manufactured at facilities in houston and conroe, texas; new iberia, louisiana; aberdeen, scotland; trinidad; shah alum and puncak alam, malaysia; and maca&eacute;, brazil. pumps are manufactured at facilities in houston, odessa and marble falls, texas; mcalester and tulsa, oklahoma; manchester and newcastle, england; melbourne, australia; and buenos aires, argentina. nov intelliserv manufactures and assembles equipment in provo, utah. the company manufactures tubular inspection equipment and tools at its houston, texas facility for resale, and renovates and repairs equipment at its manufacturing facilities in houston, texas; celle, germany; singapore; and aberdeen, scotland. fiberglass and composite tubulars and fittings are manufactured at facilities in san antonio, burkburnett and mineral wells, texas; little rock, arkansas; tulsa, oklahoma; wichita, kansas; geldermalsen, the netherlands; betim, brazil; johor, malaysia; singapore and harbin and suzhou, china, while tubular coatings are manufactured in its houston, texas facility, or through restricted sale agreements with third party manufacturers. certain of the company manufacturing facilities and certain of the company products have various certifications, including, iso 9001, api, apex and asme. 19 table of contents raw materials the company believes that materials and components used in its servicing and manufacturing operations and purchased for sales are generally available from multiple sources. the prices paid by the company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. since 2006 the company has experienced rising, declining and stable prices for mild steel and standard grades in line with broader economic activity and has generally seen specialty alloy prices continued to rise, driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. the company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to and adjusting prices on the products it sells. furthermore, the company continued to expand its supply base starting in 2006 throughout the world to address its customers needs. in 2012 and 2013, the company witnessed flat to slight increases in steel pricing which was somewhat mitigated by improved sourcing and supply chain practices. the company anticipates flat to moderate increases in steel pricing in 2014. higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. backlog the company monitors its backlog of orders within its rig technology segment to guide its planning. backlog includes orders greater than $250,000 for most items and orders for wireline units in excess of $75,000, and which require more than three months to manufacture and deliver. backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. most require reimbursement to the company for costs incurred in such an event. there can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the company will earn a profit on backlog work. backlog for equipment at december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, was $16.2 billion, $11.9 billion and $10.2 billion, respectively. employees at december 31, 2013, the company had a total of 63,779 employees, of which 8,796 were temporary employees. approximately 1,167 employees in the u.s. are subject to collective bargaining agreements. additionally, certain of the company employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. the company believes its relationship with its employees is good. 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile. the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of production by non-opec countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas; level of production from known reserves; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity; national government political requirements; development of alternate energy sources; and environmental regulations. if there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the company will decline. volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products. oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1972. in general, oil prices approximated $18-$22 per barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have generally ranged between $25-$100 per barrel since 2000. in 2008, oil prices were extremely volatile oil prices rose to $147 per barrel in july 2008 only to fall into the $35-$45 per barrel range in december 2008. oil prices then recovered since 2009, and rose to $85 per barrel by the end of 2010. oil prices remained flat in the $90-$100 per barrel range through 2012 and 2013. domestic spot gas prices generally ranged between $1.80-$2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999 then experienced spikes into the $10 range in 2001 and 2003. prices generally ranged between $4.50-$12.00 per mmbtu during 2005-2008. during 2009 through 2011, spot gas prices generally stabilized, dropping into the $3.00-$4.50 per mmbtu range, but declined below $3.00 late in 2011 and throughout much of 2012 before increasing slightly above $3.00 in late 2012. during 2013, prices continued to rise and remained steady in the $3.00-$4.50 per mmbtu range ending the year over $4.00 per mmbtu. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could reduce demand for our products. 21 table of contents worldwide financial and credit crisis could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. events in 2008 and 2009 constrained credit markets and sparked a serious global banking crisis. the slowdown in worldwide economic activity caused by the global recession reduced demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, many of our customers access the credit markets to finance their oil and natural gas drilling activity. if the recent crisis and recession reduce the availability of credit to our customers, they may reduce their drilling and production expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for our products and services. any such reduction in spending by our customers could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment. as of december 31, 2013, we had a backlog of approximately $16.2 billion of drilling equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by our rig technology segment. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties: our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this drilling equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; and our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control. the company existing contracts for rig equipment generally carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and the majority do not allow customers to cancel projects for convenience. however, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and earnings: price changes; new product and technology introductions; and improvements in availability and delivery. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. competition in our industry could lead to lower revenues and earnings. 22 table of contents we have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy. we have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through acquisitions and investment in internal growth. we anticipate that we will continue to pursue an aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the company or operate any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue. we have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. we cannot assure that we will realize earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors expectations. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future: fluctuations in the oil and gas industry; competition; the ability to service the debt obligations of the company; the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices; the ability to manage and control operating costs of the company; fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the united states and abroad; and the ability to protect our intellectual property rights. there are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability, currency restrictions, and trade and economic sanctions. approximately 65% of our revenues in 2013 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in canada, europe, the middle east, africa, southeast asia, latin america and other international markets. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies. our operations outside the united states could also expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. the u.s. department of justice ( doj ), the u.s. securities and exchange commission and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the foreign corrupt practices act and other federal statutes. under trading sanctions laws, the doj may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. if any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. we have received federal grand jury subpoenas and subsequent inquiries from governmental agencies requesting records related to our compliance with export trade laws and regulations. we have cooperated fully with agents from the department of justice, the bureau of industry and security, the office of foreign assets control, and u.s. immigration and customs enforcement in responding to the inquiries. we have also cooperated with an informal inquiry from the securities and exchange commission in connection with the inquiries previously made by the aforementioned federal agencies. we have conducted our own internal review of this matter. at the conclusion of our internal review in the fourth quarter of 2009, we identified possible areas of concern and discussed these areas of concern with the relevant agencies. we are currently negotiating a potential resolution with the agencies involved related to these matters. we currently anticipate that any administrative fine or penalty agreed to as part of a resolution would be within established accruals, and would not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. to the extent a resolution is not negotiated as anticipated, we cannot predict the timing or effect that any resulting government actions may have on our financial position or results of operations. 23 table of contents the results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we earn revenues, pay expenses, purchase assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including, but not limited to, the canadian dollar, the euro, the british pound sterling, the norwegian krone and the south korean won. approximately 65% of our 2013 revenue was derived from sales outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. thus, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income. because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net exposure to currency exchange fluctuations. we had forward contracts with a notional amount of $4,537 million (with a fair value of a net asset of $19 million) as of december 31, 2013, to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are also subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results. an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings. the company has approximately $9.0 billion of goodwill and $0.6 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2013. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant reduction in worldwide well remediation activity; a significant reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity; resulting in an increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. see additional discussion on goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets in critical accounting estimates of item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or environmental damage and suspension of operations. 24 table of contents our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. the u.s. congress is currently working on legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the united states, which includes establishing cap-and-trade programs. in addition to the pending climate legislation, the u.s. environmental protection agency has proposed regulations that would require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities, and may issue final rules this year. these changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. we had revenues of approximately 10% of total revenue from one of our customers during the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. the loss of this customer (samsung heavy industries) or a significant reduction in its purchases could adversely affect our future revenues and earnings. samsung heavy industries is a shipyard acting as a general contractor for its customers, who are drillship owners and drilling contractors. this shipyard customers have specified that the company drilling equipment be installed on their drillships and have required the shipyard to issue contracts to the company. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger systems and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. risks associated with the separation of our distribution business. our planned separation of our distribution business, under the name now inc., is subject to a number of risks, including the following: risk of non-consummation. although we expect to distribute 100% of the shares of now inc. common stock to nov stockholders in the first half of 2014, the distribution remains subject to various conditions, including, but not limited to: (i) the sec having declared effective now inc. registration statement on form 10 and (ii) the receipt of tax opinions to the effect that the distribution, together with certain related transactions, will qualify as tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ). there can be no assurance that any or all of the conditions will be met and that the distribution will be completed in the manner currently contemplated, or at all. in addition, the fulfillment of the conditions does not create any obligations on our part to effect the distribution, and our board of directors has reserved the right, in its sole discretion, to abandon, modify, or change the terms of the distribution. risks of not obtaining benefits from the separation. nov and now inc. may not realize some or all of the benefits we expect from the separation in the time frame currently contemplated, or at all. risks relating to less diversification. if the distribution is completed, our diversification of revenue sources will diminish due to the separation of now inc. from our other businesses, and it is possible that our results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility as a result. risks relating to taxes. the irs no longer issues private letter rulings regarding whether or not a spin-off transaction qualifies for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. notwithstanding the tax opinions we are to receive from our legal and tax advisors that the distribution of 100% of the shares of now inc. common stock will qualify as tax-free under such section of the code, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction, including as a result of a significant change in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, we and/or our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. 25 table of contents glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds ( pdcs ). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. 26 table of contents drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe a spoolable glass fiber-reinforced epoxy composite tubular product for onshore oil and gas gathering and injection systems, with superior corrosion resistant properties and lower installed cost than steel. flexible pipe a dynamic riser that connects subsea production equipment to a topside facility allowing for the flow of oil, gas, and/or water. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. fpso a floating production, storage and offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. hydraulic fracturing the process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1. in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. 27 table of contents kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four- or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four- or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. compare break out. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. mooring system the method by which a vessel or buoy is fixed to a certain position, whether permanently or temporarily. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment equipment used in: 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. 28 table of contents riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shaker see shale shaker shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. 29 table of contents string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. tiebacks (subsea) a series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. turret mechanical device that allows a floating vessel to rotate around stationary flowlines, umbilicals, and other associated risers. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. wellhead the termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have extensive operations in foreign countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, the company reported foreign currency losses of $26 million, $21 million and $10 million, respectively. gains and losses are primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency and adjustments to our hedged positions as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. strengthening of currencies against the u.s. dollar may create losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the countries using the local currency as their functional currency. some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. similarly some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated u.s. dollar costs, which also give rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. the following table details the company foreign currency exchange risk grouped by functional currency and their expected maturity periods as of december 31, 2013 (in millions except for rates): as of december 31, 2013 december 31, functional currency 2014 2015 total 2012 cad buy usd/sell cad: notional amount to buy (in canadian dollars) 229 229 511 average usd to cad contract rate 1.0669 1.0669 0.9895 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars 1 1 5 sell usd/buy cad: notional amount to sell (in canadian dollars) 51 51 255 average usd to cad contract rate 1.0485 1.0230 1.0230 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) 6 eur buy usd/sell eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 9 9 7 average usd to eur contract rate 0.7596 0.7429 0.7590 0.7711 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars 1 1 sell usd/buy eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 343 1 344 205 average usd to eur contract rate 0.7401 0.7429 0.7401 0.7687 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars 9 9 4 krw buy usd/sell krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 261 average usd to krw contract rate 918.8186 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 195,020 195,020 697 average usd to krw contract rate 1,114 1,114 1,013 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars 10 10 54 table of contents as of december 31, 2013 december 31, functional currency 2014 2015 total 2012 gbp buy usd/sell gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 11 11 47 average usd to gbp contract rate 0.6142 0.6142 0.6149 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 66 7 73 37 average usd to gbp contract rate 0.6208 0.6138 0.6201 0.6347 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars 2 2 2 usd buy cad/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 6 9 15 average cad to usd contract rate 0.9464 0.9399 0.9431 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars buy dkk/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 57 14 71 42 average dkk to usd contract rate 0.1810 0.1826 0.1813 0.1743 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars 1 1 buy eur/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 609 164 773 664 average eur to usd contract rate 1.3371 1.3559 1.3411 1.3095 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars 18 3 21 8 buy gbp/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 31 11 42 18 average gbp to usd contract rate 1.5756 1.5845 1.5779 1.6044 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars 1 1 buy nok/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 1,257 620 1,877 1,065 average nok to usd contract rate 0.1650 0.1627 0.1642 0.1671 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars (20 ) (8 ) (28 ) 66 buy sgd/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 9 5 15 31 average sgd to usd contract rate 0.7967 0.7965 0.7966 0.8115 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars sell cad/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 2 2 average cad to usd contract rate 0.9614 1.3625 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 11 11 12 average dkk to usd contract rate 1.3625 1.3625 0.1749 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 190 190 141 average eur to usd contract rate 1.3625 1.3109 1.3109 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars (2 ) (2 ) (1 ) sell nok/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 335 51 385 274 average nok to usd contract rate 0.1658 0.1610 0.1634 0.1723 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars 6 6 (10 ) 55 table of contents as of december 31, 2013 december 31, functional currency 2014 2015 total 2012 sell sgd/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 1 1 average sgd to usd contract rate 0.8000 0.8000 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars sell rub/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 64 64 47 average rub to usd contract rate 0.0298 0.0298 0.0320 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) sell sek/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 1 1 average sek to usd contract rate 0.1529 0.1529 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars dkk sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 111 111 111 average dkk to usd contract rate 5.61 5.6126 5.6126 fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars other currencies fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars (2 ) 1 (1 ) 6 total fair value at december 31, 2013 in u.s. dollars 23 (4 ) 19 86 the company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies for transactional exposures totaling $875 million and translation exposures totaling $561 million as of december 31, 2013, excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on the transactional exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect net income by $57 million and the translational exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect the future fair value by $56 million. the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. historically, the venezuelan government has devalued the country currency. during the first quarter of 2013, the venezuelan government again officially devalued the venezuelan bolivar against the u.s. dollar. as a result, the company incurred approximately $12 million in devaluation charges in the first quarter of 2013. the company net investment in venezuela was $39 million at december 31, 2013. interest rate risk at december 31, 2013, our long term borrowings consisted of $151 million in 6.125% senior notes, $500 million in 1.35% senior notes, $1,400 million in 2.60% senior notes and $1,100 million in 3.95% senior notes. we occasionally have borrowings under our credit facility, and a portion of these borrowings could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either libor, nibor or euribor, or at the prime interest rate. under our credit facility, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or euribor for 30 days to six months. 56 table of contentsrisk factors and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview of oil and gas well construction processes oil and gas wells are usually drilled by drilling contractors using a drilling rig. a bit is attached to the end of a drill stem, which is assembled by the drilling rig and its crew from 30 or 45-foot joints of drill pipe and specialized drilling components known as downhole tools. using the conventional rotary drilling method, the 3 table of contents drill stem is turned from the rotary table of the drilling rig by torque applied to the kelly, which is screwed into the top of the drill stem. increasingly, drilling is performed using a drilling motor, which is attached to the bottom of the drill stem and provides rotational force directly to the bit, or a top drive, a device suspended from the derrick that turns the entire drill stem, rather than such force being supplied by the rotary table. the use of drilling motors and top drives permits the drilling contractor to drill directionally, including horizontally. the company sells and rents drilling motors, agitators, drill bits, downhole tools and drill pipe through wellbore technologies, and sells top drives through rig systems. heavy drilling fluids, or drilling muds , are pumped down the drill stem and forced out through jets in the bit. the drilling mud returns to the surface through the space between the borehole wall and the drill stem, carrying with it the rock cuttings drilled out by the bit. the cuttings are removed from the mud by a solids control system (which can include shakers, centrifuges and other specialized equipment) and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. the solids control system permits the mud, which is often comprised of expensive chemicals, to be continuously reused and re-circulated back into the hole. rig systems sells the large mud pumps that are used to pump drilling mud through the drill stem, down and back up the hole. wellbore technologies sells and rents solids control equipment; and provides solids control, waste management and drilling fluids services. many operators internally coat the drill stem to improve its hydraulic efficiency and protect it from corrosive fluids sometimes encountered during drilling; have hardfacing alloys applied to drill pipe joints, collars and other components to protect tool joints and casing against wear; and inspect and assess the integrity of the drill pipe from time to time. wellbore technologies manufactures and sells drill pipe and provides coating, hard-banding , and drill pipe inspection and repair. as the hole depth increases, the kelly must be removed frequently so that additional joints of drill pipe can be added to the drill stem. when the bit becomes dull or the equipment at the bottom of the drill stem including the drilling motors otherwise requires servicing, the entire drill stem is pulled out of the hole and disassembled by disconnecting the joints of drill pipe. these are set aside or racked , the old bit is replaced or service is performed, and the drill stem is reassembled and lowered back into the hole (a process called tripping ). during drilling and tripping operations, joints of drill pipe must be screwed together and tightened ( made up ), and loosened and unscrewed ( spun out ). rig systems provides drilling equipment to manipulate and maneuver the drill pipe in this manner. when the hole has reached certain depths, all of the drill pipe is pulled out of the hole and larger diameter pipe known as casing is lowered into the hole and permanently cemented in place in order to protect against collapse and contamination of the hole. the casing is typically inspected before it is lowered into the hole, another service provided by wellbore technologies. wellbore technologies drilling optimization and automation maximizes bit performance in the wellbore by mitigating vibrations, dynamic and impact loading, and stick slip which ensures longer bit runs, reducing trips. hole openers from wellbore technologies, that mount above the drill bits in the drill stem, opens the tolerance of the hole to allow for easier and faster casing installation. completion &amp; production solutions manufactures pressure pumping equipment that is used to cement the casing in place. the rig hoisting system raises and lowers the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and lowers casing into the wellbore. a conventional hoisting system is a block and tackle mechanism that works within the drilling rig derrick. the mechanism is lifted by a series of pulleys that are attached to the drawworks at the base of the derrick. rig systems sells and installs drawworks and pipe hoisting systems. during the course of normal drilling operations, the drill stem passes through different geological formations which exhibit varying pressure characteristics. if this pressure is not contained, oil, gas and/or water would flow out of these formations to the surface. containing reservoir pressures is accomplished primarily by the circulation of heavy drilling muds and secondarily by blowout preventers ( bops ), should the mud prove inadequate in an emergency situation. rig systems sells blowout preventers. drilling muds are carefully designed to exhibit certain qualities that optimize the drilling process. in addition to containing formation pressure, they must provide power to the drilling motor; carry drilled solids to the surface; protect the drilled formations from being damaged; and, cool the drill bit. achieving these objectives often requires a formulation specific to a given well, requires a high level of cleanliness for better bottom hole assembly performance and can involve the use of 4 table of contents expensive chemicals as well as natural materials, such as certain types of clay. the fluid itself is often oil, or more expensive synthetic mud. given the cost, it is highly desirable to reuse as much of the drilling mud as possible. solids control equipment such as shale shakers, centrifuges, cuttings dryers, and mud cleaners help accomplish this objective. wellbore technologies rents, sells, operates and services this equipment. drilling muds are formulated based on expected drilling conditions. however, as the hole is drilled, the drill stem may encounter a high pressure zone where the mud density is inadequate to maintain sufficient pressure. should efforts to weight up the mud in order to contain such a pressure kick fail, a blowout could result, whereby reservoir fluids would flow uncontrolled into the well. a series of high-pressure valves known as blowout preventers are positioned at the top of the well and, when activated, form tight seals that prevent the escape of fluids to the surface. when closed, conventional bops prevent normal rig operations so the bops are activated only if drilling mud and normal well control procedures cannot safely contain the pressure. the operations of the rig and the condition of the drilling mud are closely monitored by various sensors, which measure operating parameters such as the weight on the rig hook, the incidence of pressure kicks, the operation of the drilling mud pumps, etc. wellbore technologies sells and rents drilling rig instrumentation packages that perform these monitoring functions. monitoring can be done at the well or remotely from selected centralized operation centers. during drilling operations the drilling rig and related equipment and tools are subject to severe stresses, pressures and temperatures, as well as a corrosive environment, and require regular repair and maintenance. rig aftermarket supplies spare parts and can dispatch field service engineers with the expertise to quickly repair and maintain equipment, minimizing down time. after the well has reached its total depth and the final section of casing has been set, the drilling rig is moved off and the well is prepared to begin producing oil or gas in a process known as well completion. well completion usually involves installing production tubing concentrically in the casing. due to the corrosive nature of many produced fluids, production tubing is often inspected and coated, services offered by wellbore technologies. sometimes operators choose to use corrosion resistant composite materials or alloys, sold by completion &amp; production solutions. from time to time, a producing well may undergo workover procedures to extend its life and/or increase its production rate. workover rigs are used to disassemble the wellhead, tubing and other completion components of an existing well in order to stimulate or remediate the well. workover rigs are similar to drilling rigs in their capabilities to handle tubing, but are usually smaller and somewhat less sophisticated. the company offers a comprehensive range of workover rigs through rig systems. tubing and sucker rods removed from a well during a well remediation operation are often inspected to determine their suitability to be reused in the well, a service wellbore technologies provides. frequently, coiled tubing units or wireline units are used to accomplish certain well remediation operations or well completions. coiled tubing consists of a continuous length of reeled steel tubing which can be injected concentrically into the production tubing all the way to the bottom of most wells. it permits many operations to be performed without disassembling the production tubing, and without curtailing the production of the well. wireline winch units are devices that utilize single-strand or multi-strand wires to perform well remediation operations, such as lowering tools and transmitting data to the surface. the completion &amp; production solutions segment manufactures and sells various types of coiled tubing and wireline equipment and tools. rig systems the company rig systems segment makes and supports the capital equipment and integrated systems needed to drill oil and gas wells on land and offshore. the segment designs, manufactures, and sells land rigs, complete offshore drilling equipment packages, and drilling rig components that mechanize and automate many complex rig processes. 5 table of contents equipment and technologies in rig systems include: power transmission systems, like drives and generators; substructures, derricks, and masts; pipe lifting, racking, rotating, and assembly systems; pressure control equipment, including blowout preventers; cranes; and rig instrumentation and control systems. top drives . the tds top drive drilling system, originally introduced by the company in 1982, significantly altered the traditional drilling process. the tds rotates the drill stem from its top, rather than by the rotary table, with a large electric motor affixed to rails installed in the derrick that traverses the length of the derrick to the rig floor, eliminating the conventional rotary table for drilling. components of the tds also are used to connect additional joints of drill pipe to the drill stem during drilling operations, enabling the use of three or four pre-connected joints of drill pipe at a time, compared to traditional drilling with one joint of drill pipe. additionally, the tds facilitates horizontal and extended reach drilling. electric rig motors. the company has helped lead the application of ac motor technology in the oilfield industry. the company buys motors from third parties and builds them in its own facilities and is further developing motor technology, including the introduction of permanent magnet drilling motors for use in top drives, cranes, mud pumps, winches, and drawworks. rotary equipment . the alternative to using a tds to rotate the drill stem is to use a rotary table, which rotates the pipe at the floor of the rig. rig systems produces rotary tables as well as kelly and master bushings. in 1998, the company introduced the rotary support table for use on rigs with a tds. the rotary support table is used in concert with the tds to completely eliminate the need for the larger conventional rotary table. pipe handling systems . pipe racking systems are used to handle drill pipe, casing and tubing on a drilling rig. vertical pipe racking systems move drill pipe and casing between the well and a storage ( racking ) area on the rig floor. horizontal racking systems are used to handle tubulars while stored horizontally (for example, on the pipe deck of an offshore rig) and transport tubulars up to the rig floor and into a vertical position for use in the drilling process. vertical pipe racking systems are used predominantly on offshore rigs and are found on almost all floating rigs. mechanical vertical pipe racking systems greatly reduce the manual effort involved in pipe handling. pipe racking systems, introduced by the company in 1985, provide a fully automated mechanism for handling and racking drill pipe during drilling and tripping operations, spinning and torquing drill pipe, and automatic hoisting and racking of disconnected joints of drill pipe. these functions can be integrated via computer controlled sequencing, and operated by a driller from an environmentally secure cabin. an important element of this system is the iron roughneck, which was originally introduced by the company in 1976 and is an automated device that makes pipe connections on the rig floor and requires less direct involvement of rig floor personnel in potentially dangerous operations. the automated roughneck is a microprocessor-controlled version of the iron roughneck. horizontal pipe transfer systems were introduced by the company in 1993. they include the pipe deck machine ( pdm ), which is used to manipulate and move stored tubulars; the pipe transfer conveyor ( ptc ), which transports sections of pipe to the rig floor; and a pickup laydown system ( pls ), which raises the pipe to a vertical position for transfer to a vertical racking system. these components may be employed separately, or incorporated together to form a complete horizontal racking system, known as the pipe transfer system ( pts ). pipe handling tools . the company pipe handling tools are designed to enhance the safety, efficiency and reliability of pipe handling operations. many of these tools have provided innovative methods of performing the designated task through mechanization of functions previously performed manually. rig systems manufactures various tools used to grip, hold, raise, and lower pipe, and in the making up and breaking out of drill pipe, workstrings, casing and production tubulars including spinning wrenches, manual tongs, torque wrenches and kelly spinners. 6 table of contents mud pumps. mud pumps are high pressure pumps located on the rig that force drilling mud down the drill pipe, through the drill bit, and up the space between the drill pipe and the drilled formation (the annulus ) back to the surface. these pumps, which generate pressures of up to 7,500 psi, must therefore be capable of displacing drilling fluids thousands of feet down and back up the well bore. the conventional mud pump design, known as the triplex pump, uses three reciprocating pistons oriented horizontally. the company has introduced the hex pump, which uses six pumping cylinders, versus the three used in the triplex pump. along with other design features, the greater number of cylinders reduces pulsations (or surges) and increases the output available from a given footprint. reduced pulsation is desirable where downhole measurement equipment is being used during the drilling process, as is often the case in directional drilling. hoisting systems . hoisting systems are used to raise or lower the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and to lower casing into the wellbore. the drawworks, the heart of the hoisting system, is a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line, which is in turn connected to the drill stem at the top of the derrick. the drawworks also plays an important role in keeping the weight on the drill bit at a desired level. this task is particularly challenging on offshore drilling rigs, which are subject to wave motion. to address this, the company has introduced the ahd active heave drilling drawworks which uses computer-controlled motors to compensate for the motion experienced in offshore drilling operations. cranes. the company provides a comprehensive range of crane solutions, with purpose-built products for all segments of the oil and gas industry as well as many other markets. the company has a broad collection of crane brand names with international recognition, and a large staff of engineers specializing in the design of cranes and related equipment. the product range extends from small cargo-handling cranes to the world largest marine cranes. in all, the company provides over twenty crane product lines that include standard model configurations as well as custom-engineered and specialty cranes. motion compensation systems . traditionally, motion compensation equipment is located on top of the drilling rig and serves to stabilize the bit on the bottom of the hole, increasing drilling effectiveness of floating offshore rigs by compensating for wave and wind action. the ahd drawworks, discussed above, was introduced to eliminate weight and improve safety, removing the compensator from the top of the rig and integrating it into the drawworks system. in addition to the ahd drawworks, the company has introduced an active heave compensation ( ahc ) system that goes beyond the capabilities of the ahd drawworks to handle the most severe weather. additionally, the company tensioning systems provide continuous axial tension to the marine riser pipe (larger diameter pipe which connects floating drilling rigs to the well on the ocean floor) and guide lines on floating drilling rigs, tension leg platforms and jack-up drilling rigs. blowout preventers . bops are devices used to seal the space between the drill pipe and the borehole and, if necessary, to also shear the drill pipe itself to prevent blowouts (uncontrolled flows of formation fluids and gases to the surface). rig systems manufactures a wide array of bops used in various applications from deepwater offshore vessels to land rigs. ram and annular bops are back-up devices that are activated only if other techniques for controlling pressure in the wellbore are inadequate. when closed, these devices prevent normal drilling operations. ram bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing rams (thick heavy blocks of steel) against each other across the wellbore. specially designed packers seal around specific sizes of pipe in the wellbore, shear pipe in the wellbore or close off an open hole. annular bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing a rubber packing unit around the drill pipe or kelly or by sealing against itself if nothing is in the hole. in 1998, the company introduced the nxt tm ram type bop which eliminates door bolts, providing significant weight, rig-time, and space savings. its unique features make subsea operation more efficient through faster ram configuration changes. in 2004, the company introduced the lxt tm ram type of bop, which features many of the design elements of the nxt tm , but is targeted at the land market. over the past five years considerable focus has been placed on robustness and reliability in the fundamental design of the equipment with extensive testing being performed in an r&amp;d facility opened in 2012. in 2013, the company acquired the t3 bop product line, further expanding its market offering of reliable, field proven designs for land based drilling applications. 7 table of contents the shearmax tm line of low force bop shear rams released in 2010 add substantial tubular shearing capability to the company line of pressure control equipment, including the capability to shear large drill pipe tool joints, previously unheard of in the industry. this innovative shear blade design utilizes patented puncture technology to reduce the shearing pressures 50% or more and in some cases as much as five times lower. the shearmax blind shear provides a shear-and-seal design for drill pipe, while the casing and tjc shears address casing up to 16 od and most tool joints up to 2 wall thickness, respectively. derricks and substructures. drilling activities are carried out from a drilling rig. a drilling rig consists of one or two derricks; the substructure that supports the derrick(s); and the rig package, which consists of the various pieces of equipment discussed above. rig systems designs, fabricates and services derricks used in both onshore and offshore applications, and substructures used in onshore applications. rig systems also works with shipyards in the fabrication of substructures for offshore drilling rigs. land rig packages . the company designs, manufactures, assembles, upgrades, and supplies equipment sets to a variety of land drilling rigs, including those specifically designed to operate in harsh environments such as the arctic circle and the desert. our key land rig product names include the ideal rig , drake rig , and rapid rig tm . the company recent rig packages are designed to be safer and fast moving, to utilize ac technology, and to reduce manpower required to operate a rig. offshore drilling equipment packages. rig systems also provides the above major pieces of equipment in fully integrated equipment packages for offshore drilling rigs. by purchasing an entire drilling equipment package customers reap the benefits of rig systems integrated package engineering and installation and commissioning expertise, alleviating many of the potential problems of sourcing complex equipment that must work together from multiple vendors. customers and competition. rig systems sells directly to drilling contractors, rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumping companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and also through distribution companies. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. the products of rig systems are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or improved availability and delivery. the segment primary competitors are mhwirth; aker solutions; american electric technologies; american block; axon energy products; bentec; bomco; canrig (a division of nabors industries); cavins oil well tools; cameron international; den-con tool company; forum energy technologies; general electric; hitec products; honghua; huisman; liebherr; parveen industries; omron corporation; rolls royce; siemens; stewart &amp; stevenson; soilmec and drillmec (a part of the trevi group); seatrax; tesco corporation; w&auml;rtsil&auml; and weatherford international. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting rig systems are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of spare parts and consumables, breadth of product line and price. rig aftermarket the company rig aftermarket segment provides comprehensive aftermarket products and services to support a large installed base of land and offshore rigs, and drilling rig components manufactured by the company rig systems segment. the segment provides spare parts, repair, and rentals as well as technical support, field service and first well support, field engineering, and customer training through a network of aftermarket service and repair facilities strategically located in major areas of drilling operations. spare parts . rig aftermarket maintains an inventory of spare parts, the majority manufactured by rig systems, across a global network of aftermarket service and repair facilities. 8 table of contents technical support . rig aftermarket technical support centers troubleshoot and resolve equipment needs for customers. cross-disciplinary teams work together with field service technicians and subject matter experts to keep customers rigs in operation and utilize web-based applications to record, manage, and resolve issues. field service . field service engineers actively support rig equipment and technologies on location. based across a global network of aftermarket service and repair facilities, field service engineers can be deployed to operating sites worldwide to resolve equipment issues, whether structural, mechanical, electrical, or software-related. repair . rig aftermarket overhauls, repairs, rebuilds, and recertifies equipment to quality assurance and oem specifications using only oem parts. ehawk remote support . a subscription service available to customers, ehawk support centers provide fast issue response times. using satellite and computer technology, ehawk support centers can diagnose equipment status and work to handle issues remotely, reducing service personnel visits to the field. ehawk utilizes web-based applications to record, manage, and resolve issues. field engineering . rig aftermarket field engineering supports customers by providing rig-specific designs, modifications, and solutions as needed. services include rig surveys, proposal and design drawings, service manuals, and equipment installation. training centers and technical colleges . rig aftermarket training centers offering training for all equipment and technologies designed and manufactured by rig systems. training centers offer a varied curriculum that incorporates hands-on experience, use of equipment simulators, automated classrooms, and enhanced animations with cross-sectional cutouts. customers and competition. rig aftermarket supports land and offshore drillers. demand for the segment products and services depends on overall levels of oilfield drilling activity, which drives demand for spare parts, service, and repair for rig system large installed base of equipment; and secondarily on drilling contractors and oil and gas companies capital spending plans, specifically capital expenditures on rig refurbishments and re-certifications. the products of rig aftermarket are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or improved availability and delivery. the segment primary competitors are mhwirth; american electric technologies; american block; axon energy products; bentec; bomco; canrig (a division of nabors industries); cavins oil well tools; cameron international; den-con tool company; forum energy technologies; general electric; hitec products; honghua; huisman liebherr; parveen industries; omron corporation; rolls royce; siemens; stewart &amp; stevenson; soilmec and drillmec (a part of the trevi group); seatrax; sparrows offshore; subsea solutions; tesco corporation; w&auml;rtsil&auml; and weatherford international. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting rig aftermarket are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of spare parts and consumables, breadth of product line and price. wellbore technologies the company wellbore technologies segment designs, manufactures, rents, and sells a variety of equipment and technologies used to perform drilling operations, and offers services that optimize their performance, including: solids control and waste management equipment and services; drilling fluids; portable power generation; premium drill pipe; wired pipe; drilling optimization and automation services; tubular inspection, repair and coating services; rope access inspection; instrumentation; measuring and monitoring; downhole and fishing tools; steerable technologies; hole openers; and drill bits. the wellbore technologies segment focuses on oil and gas companies and supports drilling contractors, oilfield service companies, and oilfield rental companies. demand for wellbore technologies products and services primarily depends on the level of oilfield drilling activity by oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, and oilfield service companies. 9 table of contents drill pipe products. the company designs, manufactures, and sells a full range of proprietary premium and api drill stem products used for the drilling of oil and gas wells. a drilling rig typically carries an inventory of 10,000 to 30,000 feet of drill pipe, which is consumed over time by the drilling process. during the drilling process, motors mounted on the rig rotate the drill pipe, bottom-hole assembly, and drill bit. in addition to driving the drill bit, drill pipe serves as the conduit for drilling fluids. the company offers a broad line of premium drilling products designed for the drilling of extended reach, directional, horizontal, deepwater, and ultra-deep wells in both international and domestic markets. voest-alpine tubulars ( vat ) . vat is a joint venture between the company and the austrian based voest-alpine group. the company has a 50.01% investment in the joint venture which is located in kindberg, austria. vat owns a tubular mill with an annual capacity of approximately 380,000 metric tons and is the primary supplier of green tubes for our u.s. based production. vat is accounted for under the equity-method of accounting due to the minority owner having substantive participating rights. tubular coating . the company develops, manufactures and applies its proprietary tubular coatings, known as tube-kote &reg; coatings, to new and used downhole tubulars and line pipe. tubular coatings help prevent corrosion, which extends the life of tubular assets, and reduces expensive interruptions in production. in addition, coatings are designed to increase the fluid flow rate up to 25%. in addition, the company offers a mechanical fit connection that is very quick to field install and combined with internal coatings provides a continuous internal surface of coatings thru the connection. the company also offers other corrosion solutions such as fiberglass lined tubing that also services our customers as it relates to wells that are injection or enhance oil recovery wells. tubular inspection. newly manufactured pipe may have serious defects that are not detected at the mill, and pipe can be damaged during handling prior to use at the well site. exploration and production companies have new tubulars inspected before they are placed in service to reduce the risk of tubular failures during drilling, completion, or production. used tubulars are inspected to detect service-induced flaws. in addition to our tubular inspection product line, we have a specialty inspection group that performs rig inspections, drop surveys, lift gear inspections and derrick building services via rope access with locations around the world to service the land and offshore contractors. tubular inspection techniques include electromagnetic, ultrasonic, magnetic flux leakage and gamma ray. inspection services are provided by mobile units at the wellhead as used tubing is removed from a well, and at fixed site locations. mill systems and sales. the company engineers and fabricates inspection equipment for steel mills, which it sells and rents. the equipment is used for quality control purposes to detect defects in the pipe during the high-speed manufacturing process. each piece of mill inspection equipment is designed to customer specifications and is installed and serviced by the company. machining, repair and services. the company offers a variety of machining services including: thread repair, tool joint rebuilding and sub manufacturing, providing a one-stop-shop concept for its drill pipe customers. drilling &amp; intervention. the company combines a wide array of drilling and intervention tools with drilling, coring, borehole enlargement and other services. the broad spectrum of bottom hole assembly ( bha ) components offered is the result of the strategic consolidation of key acquisitions. the company manufactures fixed cutter and roller cone drill bits and services its customer base in virtually every significant oil and gas producing region of the world. the company designs, manufacturers and services a wide array of downhole motors which are capable of achieving higher rotary velocities than can generally be achieved using conventional surface rotary equipment. the agitator friction reduction tool delivers improved drilling efficiency along with extending the reach of horizontal drilling applications. 10 table of contents the company manufactures an extensive range of hole-opening solutions, borehole enlargement, which produce enlarged wellbores in numerous applications and operate in demanding environments around the world. the company manufactures steerable technologies that allow for borehole directional control, enabling our customers to drill more efficiently in challenging environments globally. through its coring services business line, the company enables the extraction of actual rock samples from a drilled well bore and allows geologists to examine the formations at the surface. the company is well positioned to address intervention and well workovers with a comprehensive offering of leading fishing and thru-tubing tools. we sell and rent tools to perform retrieval of stuck tools and remove debris, mill bridge plugs and other devices and manipulate well flow control. dynamic drilling solutions. the company dynamic drilling solutions combines product lines that are focused on instrumentation, etools for measuring, data-driven solutions used for monitoring, managed pressure drilling, and drilling automation and optimization. dynamic drilling solutions generates, collects, aggregates, communicates, and analyzes drilling data to provide our customers effective solutions for their well environments. instrumentation. the company instrumentation business provides drilling rig operators real time measurement and monitoring of critical parameters required to improve rig safety and efficiency. the company measurement and monitoring systems combine leading hardware and software technologies (both at the surface and in the wellbore) into an integrated drilling rig package. access of drilling data is provided to offsite locations, enabling company personnel to monitor drilling operations through a secure link. directional sensors, steering tools, magnetic multi-shot tools and electromagnetic measurement-while-drilling systems are offered by the company. these directional etools provide measurements and store the data in memory or use a telemetry pathway to transmit downhole data to the surface. at the surface this data is analyzed to optimize well trajectory and improve the drilling rate-of-penetration. managed pressure drilling equipment and support services enable improved kick detection and help manage wellbore pressures during drilling to permit accessing reserves in certain areas using chokes, manifolds, rotating control devices, continuous circulation systems, downhole sensors and optimized control systems. solids control and waste management . the company offers highly-engineered equipment, and services to separate and manage drill cuttings produced by the drilling process ( solids control ). drill cuttings are usually contaminated with petroleum or drilling fluids, and must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. wellsite services manufactures state-of-the-art patented solids control equipment. upon the separation of the drill cuttings wellsite services provides waste management (both onsite and at centralized locations), including transport and storage. fluids services. the company is engaged in the provision of drilling fluid systems, drilling fluid products, completion fluids and other related services. drilling fluids are used to maintain well bore stability while drilling, control downhole pressure, lubricate and cool the drill bit, suspend and release cuttings, and transmit hydraulic energy to drilling tools and bits. wellsite services provides water and oil based drilling fluids portable power generation. the portable power division provides rental generators, lighting and other accessories for use in the upstream oil and gas industry, refinery and petrochemical operations, construction sites, events, disaster relief and other industries. nov intelliserv. nov intelliserv is a joint venture between the company and schlumberger, ltd. in which the company holds a 55% interest and maintains operational control. nov intelliserv manufactures wellbore data transmission products used to deliver high-speed communication up and down the drill string. 11 table of contents customers and competition. customers for wellbore technologies include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield equipment and product distributors and other manufacturers, oilfield service companies, steel mills, rental companies, and other industrial companies. the company competitors include: baker hughes; drill pipe masters; frank international; future pipe; halliburton; hanwei; hilong; patterson tubular services; precision tube; shawcor; schlumberger; superior energy services; texas steel conversion; vallourec &amp; mannesmann and weatherford international, along with a number of smaller regional competitors. completion &amp; production solutions the company completion &amp; production solutions segment integrates technologies for well completions and oil and gas production. the segment designs, manufactures, and sells equipment and technologies needed for hydraulic fracture stimulation, including pressure pumping trucks, blenders, sanders, hydration units, injection units, flowline, manifolds and wellheads; well intervention, including coiled tubing units, coiled tubing, and wireline units and tools; offshore production, including composite pipe, process equipment, floating production systems and subsea production technologies; and, onshore production including surface transfer and progressive cavity pumps, positive displacement reciprocating pumps, pressure vessels, and artificial lift systems. completion &amp; production solutions supports service companies and oil and gas companies. demand for completion &amp; production solutions products depends on the level of oilfield completions and workover activity by oilfield service companies and drilling contractors and capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and oilfield service companies. coiled tubing equipment . coiled tubing consists of flexible steel tubing manufactured in a continuous string and spooled on a reel. it can often extend over twenty thousand feet in length and is run in and out of the wellbore at a high rate of speed by a hydraulically operated coiled tubing unit. a coiled tubing unit is typically mounted on a truck, semi-trailer or skid (steel frames on which portable equipment is mounted to facilitate handling with cranes for offshore use) and consists of a hydraulically operated tubing reel or drum, an injector head which pushes or pulls the tubing in or out of the wellbore, and various power and control systems. coiled tubing is typically used with sophisticated pressure control equipment which permits the operator to perform workover operations on a live well. the completion &amp; production solutions segment manufactures and sells both coiled tubing units and the ancillary pressure control equipment used in these operations. currently, most coiled tubing units are used in well remediation and completion applications. the company believes that advances in the manufacturing process of coiled tubing, tubing fatigue protection and the capability to manufacture larger diameter and increased wall thickness coiled tubing strings have resulted in increased uses and applications for these products. for example, some well operators are now using coiled tubing in drilling applications such as slim-hole re-entries of existing wells. wireline equipment . the company wireline products include wireline drum units, which consist of a spool or drum of wireline cable, mounted in a mobile vehicle or skid, which works in conjunction with a source of power (an engine mounted in the vehicle or within a separate power pack skid). the wireline drum unit is used to spool wireline cable into or out of a well, in order to perform surveys inside the well, sample fluids from the bottom of the well, retrieve or replace components from inside the well, or to perform other well remediation or survey operations. the wireline used may be slick line , which is conventional single-strand steel cable used to convey tools in or out of the well, or electric line , which contains an imbedded single-conductor or multi-conductor electrical line which permits communication between the surface and electronic instruments attached to the end of the wireline at the bottom of the well. wireline units are usually used in conjunction with a variety of pressure control equipment which permits safe access into wells while they are flowing and under pressure at the surface. the company engineers and manufactures a broad range of pressure control equipment for wireline operations, including wireline blowout preventers, strippers, packers, lubricators and grease injection units. additionally, the company makes wireline rigging equipment such as mast trucks, and skidded masts for offshore rig-up. 12 table of contents stimulation equipment . the company stimulation products include fracturing pumpers, acid units, frac blenders, frac control systems, sand handling systems, combo units, hydration and chemical additive systems as well as services and parts. additionally, the company sells, services, and rents wellheads, frac trees, portable flow line, and well testing equipment. turret mooring systems. the company designs and manufacturers turret mooring systems and spread moored systems, and other products for floating production, storage and offloading ( fpsos ) and other offshore vessels and terminals. a turret mooring system consists of a geostatic part attached to the seabed and a rotating part integrated in the hull of the fpso, which are connected and allow the ship to weathervane (rotate) around the turret during production. flexible pipe systems. the company designs and manufactures flexible pipe products and systems for the offshore oil and gas industry, including products associated with fpso and other offshore production platforms, as well as subsea production systems including flexible risers, flowlines and jumpers. the product range consists of flexible pipe solutions from 2 16 , designed to operate under very demanding offshore conditions in all parts of the world. the products remain flexible even under very high working pressure, up to 1,000 bars, and at the same time they are able to withstand working temperatures from minus 50&deg; centigrade up to +130&deg; centigrade. flexible pipe systems are superior to other pipe solutions in respect of flexibility, ability to withstand different design conditions and capability to convey challenging mixtures of liquid and gaseous fluids. the company products are qualified for use in water depths down to 2,000 meters. the company also supplies a wide range of additional equipment such as accessories and steel structures required in a given system configuration. fiberglass &amp; composite tubulars. the company designs, manufactures and markets filament-wound and molded fiberglass pipe and fittings as well as spoolable fiberglass pipe. these products are used by a wide range of petroleum, petrochemical and other industrial fluid and gas processing industries; for service station piping systems; aboard marine vessels, fpsos and offshore oil platforms; and, are marketed as an alternative to metallic piping systems which can fail under corrosive operating conditions. the company fiberspar business, manufactures and sells fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe to the oil and gas industry which provides a reliable, corrosion-resistant, cost-effective solution for the production and transportation of oil and gas. xl systems. the company xl systems product line offers the customer an integrated package of large-bore tubular products and services for offshore or deep onshore wells. this product line includes the company proprietary line of wedge thread connections on large-bore tubulars and related engineering and design services. the company provides this product line for drive pipe, jet strings and conductor casing. the company produces large-bore tubulars with a high-strength, high-fatigue viper weld-on connector for use in deep-water and other environments where an extremely robust connector is needed. the company also offers service personnel in connection with the installation of all of these products. process and flow technologies. the company serves its customers in various industrial and oil and gas markets by designing, manufacturing and distributing key products including pumping technologies (reciprocating, multistage surface, and progressive cavity pumps), process equipment (dynamic oil recovery, water treatment, sand handling, separation and crude / gas handling), artificial lift solutions (stuffing boxes, drive heads, pcp, control boxes, polished rod accessories, and hydraulic pumping units), mixing and agitation equipment, heat exchangers, pipeline products (closures, expanding gate valves, and plug valves) and general oilfield products (critical service hookups, pumping tees, and production bop s). these products are used by a highly diversified customer base with presence in oil and gas and industrial markets, which include waste water treatment, mining, chemical processing, paper and pulp, agriculture, food and beverage, among others. the group supports its international market and customer base through a mixed channel to market model, which includes both direct sales and separate partnership relationships. pumps &amp; expendables . the company designs, manufactures, and sells pumps and expendables that are used in oil and gas drilling operations, well service operations, production applications, as well as industrial applications. 13 table of contents these pumps include reciprocating positive displacement piston and plunger pumps and high pressure mud pumps. these pumps are sold as individual units and unitized packages with drivers, controls and piping. the company also manufactures fluid end expendables (liners, valves, pistons, and plungers). the company offers popular industry brand names including: wheatley, gaso, national, oilwell, msw, and omega reciprocating pumps. customers and competition. the primary customers for the products and services offered by the completion &amp; productions solutions segment include well servicing companies, oil and gas companies, and fabricators, as well as distributors in select markets. competitors include: cameron international; circor international; corpro (a division of als); dover; drilquip; fmc technologies; forum energy technologies; ge oil &amp; gas; modec; sbm offshore; stewart &amp; stevenson; technip; roper industries; weir group; and a number of regional competitors. management believes that on-site support is becoming a more important competitive element in this market, and other competitive factors affecting the business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, product availability and technology, breadth of product line and price. 2015 acquisitions and other investments during 2015, the company completed a total of seven acquisitions and other investments for an aggregate investment of $86 million, net of cash acquired. 2015 realignment from time to time the company realigns the structure of its organization to achieve business goals, including enhanced efficiency and cost reduction. in november, certain of the company subsidiaries completed restructuring transactions intended to achieve these goals, through a strategic realignment of certain business units. these restructuring activities include: (a) a division of national oilwell varco, l.p. ( nov lp ) allocating certain assets and liabilities associated with the chemineer and process &amp; flow technologies business units to chemineer, inc. and nov process &amp; flow technologies us, inc., respectively; (b) realignment of the structure of robbins &amp; myers, inc. ( r&amp;m ) and distribution of r&amp;m equity ownership in certain subsidiaries to grant prideco, inc. ( grant prideco ), a direct subsidiary of the company; (c) realignment of business units of ameron international corporation ( ameron ) including (i) the contribution of certain assets and liabilities corresponding to two divisions (respectively, the water transmission and pole products divisions) into separate subsidiaries of ameron, and (ii) the distribution by ameron of all of the outstanding membership interest in tubo-fgs, llc (a fiberglass pipe business unit) and certain intangible intellectual property assets to its parent grant prideco for strategic realignment with grant prideco fiberglass pipe division; (d) distribution of certain intangible intellectual property assets from subsidiaries to a holding company subsidiary; (e) realignment of the ownership structure of national oilwell dht; and (f) elimination of certain intercompany balances between subsidiaries through distribution, setoff or assignment, including without limitation intercompany balances between nov lp and certain divisions of fiber glass systems, l.p., as obligors, and ameron, as obligee. seasonal nature of the company business historically, activity levels of some of the company segments have followed seasonal trends to some degree. in canada, wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions typically realized high first quarter activity levels, as operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling and production areas. in past years, certain canadian businesses within wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions have declined during the second quarter due to warming weather conditions which resulted in thawing, softer ground, difficulty accessing drill sites, and road bans that curtailed drilling activity ( canadian breakup ). however, these segments have typically rebounded in the third and fourth quarter. wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions activity in the u.s. sometimes increases during the third quarter and then 14 table of contents peaks in the fourth quarter as operators spend the remaining drilling and/or production capital budgets for that year. wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions revenues in the rocky mountain region sometimes decline in the late fourth quarter or early first quarter due to harsh winter weather. the company fiberglass and composite tubulars business in china has typically declined in the first quarter due to the impact of weather on manufacturing and installation operations, and due to business slowdowns associated with the chinese new year. in general, rig systems and rig aftermarket have not experienced significant seasonal fluctuation, although orders for new equipment and aftermarket spare parts may be modestly affected by holiday schedules. there can be no guarantee that seasonal effects will not influence future sales in these segments. the company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue. however, there can be no guarantee that spending by the company customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past. marketing and distribution network substantially all of rig systems capital equipment and rig aftermarket spare parts sales, and a large portion of our smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through our direct sales force and distribution service centers. sales to foreign oil companies are often made with or through representative arrangements. products within wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions are rented and sold worldwide through our own sales force and through commissioned representatives. completion &amp; production solutions customers are predominantly service companies and oil and gas companies. demand for the company completion &amp; production solutions segment products depends on the level of oilfield completions and workover activity by oilfield service companies and drilling contractors and capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and oilfield service companies. the company foreign operations, which include significant operations in canada, europe, russia, the far east, the middle east, africa and latin america, are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including foreign currency exchange risks and uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the company operates have adopted policies (or are subject to governmental policies) giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of such policies, the company relies on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationship between the company and such government-owned petroleum companies. although the company has not experienced any material problems in foreign countries arising from nationalistic policies, political instability, economic instability or currency restrictions, there can be no assurance that such a problem will not arise in the future. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding geographic revenue information. research and new product development and intellectual property the company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights. as of december 31, 2015, the company held a substantial number of united states patents and had additional patent applications pending. as of this date, the company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to inventions covered by the united states patents. additionally, the company maintains a substantial number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets. expiration dates of such patents range from 2016 to 2035. 15 table of contents although the company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. the company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenue from new products. manufacturing and service locations the manufacturing processes for the company products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components and testing. most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel. the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. rig systems provides drilling rig components, as well as complete land drilling rigs, and offshore drilling equipment packages. the primary manufacturing facilities are located in houston, texas; orange, california; and ulsan, south korea. rig aftermarket provides comprehensive aftermarket products and services to support land rigs and offshore rigs, and drilling rig components manufactured by rig systems. primary facilities are located in houston, texas; new iberia, louisiana; aberdeen, scotland; singapore; and dubai, uae. wellbore technologies designs, manufactures, rents, and sells a variety of equipment and technologies used to perform drilling operations, and offers services that optimize their performance, including: solids control and waste management equipment and services, drilling fluids, premium drill pipe, wired pipe, drilling optimization services, tubular inspection and coating services, instrumentation, downhole tools, and drill bits. primary facilities are located in houston, conroe, navasota, cedar park, texas; veracruz, mexico; and dubai, uae. completion &amp; production solutions integrates technologies for well completions and oil and gas production. the segment designs, manufactures, and sells equipment and technologies needed for hydraulic fracture stimulation, including pressure pumping trucks and pumps, blenders, sanders, hydration units, injection units, flowline, manifolds and wellheads; well intervention, including coiled tubing units, coiled tubing, and wireline units and tools; onshore production, including composite pipe, surface transfer and progressive cavity pumps, and artificial lift systems; and, offshore production, including floating production systems and subsea production technologies. primary facilities are located in houston, fort worth, texas; tulsa, oklahoma; senai, malaysia; kalundborg, denmark; superporto du acu, brazil; and manchester, england. raw materials the company believes that materials and components used in its operations are generally available from multiple sources. the prices paid by the company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. the company has experienced rising, declining and stable prices for mild steel and standard grades in line with broader economic activity and has generally seen specialty alloy prices continue to rise, driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. the company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to, and adjusting prices on, the products it sells. higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. backlog the company monitors its backlog of orders within its rig systems and completion &amp; production solutions segments to guide its planning. backlog includes orders which typically require more than three months to manufacture and deliver. 16 table of contents backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. most require reimbursement to the company for costs incurred in such an event. there can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the company will earn a profit on backlog work. backlog for rig systems at december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, was $6.1 billion, $12.5 billion and $15.0 billion, respectively. backlog for completion &amp; production solutions at december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $1.0 billion, $1.8 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively. employees at december 31, 2015, the company had a total of 50,197 employees, of which 5,871 were temporary employees. approximately 470 employees in the u.s. are subject to collective bargaining agreements. additionally, certain of the company employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. the company believes its relationship with its employees is good. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile. the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our products and services depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: the current and anticipated future prices for oil and natural gas; the ability or willingness of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits; the level of production by non-opec countries; level of excess production capacity; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity and associated demand for oil and gas; availability and access to potential hydrocarbon resources; national government political requirements; development of alternate energy sources; and environmental regulations. the current significant oil and gas industry downturn has resulted in reduced demand for oilfield services, which has had, and may continue to have, a significant adverse impact on our financial results. if these conditions worsen or oil and gas prices do not improve, further reductions in spending by the oil and gas industry could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could reduce demand for our products. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our equipment. as of december 31, 2015, we had a backlog of capital equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by rig systems and completion &amp; production solutions in the amount of $6.1 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely impact completion of these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties: financial challenges for consumers of our capital equipment; 18 table of contents credit market conditions for consumers of our capital equipment; our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; and our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control. the company existing contracts for rig equipment generally carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and the majority do not allow customers to cancel projects for convenience. however, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we consummated a settlement with a shipyard customer on december 28, 2015 concerning seven contracts for the supply of drilling equipment packages for drillship construction projects in brazil (collectively the supply contracts ). pursuant to the terms of the settlement, the supply contracts have been terminated. we did not take a charge as a result of the settlement; however we did reduce the rig systems segment backlog by $1.2 billion in the quarter. at december 31, 2015, our backlog included $1.8 billion for the remaining 15 rigs across three shipyards in brazil. competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenue and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following competitive actions can each affect our revenue and earnings: price changes; new product and technology introductions; and improvements in availability and delivery. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. actions taken by our competitors and changes in local policies, preferences or regulations could impact our ability to compete in certain markets and adversely affect our financial results. we have expanded our businesses through acquisitions and internal growth and intend to maintain a growth strategy. we have expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through acquisitions and investment in internal growth and continue to pursue a growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. 19 table of contents our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue. we have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. we cannot assure that we will realize earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors expectations. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future: fluctuations in the oil and gas industry; competition; the ability to service the debt obligations of the company; the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices; the ability to manage and control operating costs of the company; fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the united states and abroad; and the ability to protect our intellectual property rights. there are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability, currency restrictions, and trade and economic sanctions. approximately 75% of our revenues in 2015 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in argentina, canada, brazil, europe, the middle east, china, africa, nigeria, southeast asia, russia, latin america and other international markets. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies or oilfield service companies. our operations outside the united states could also expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states as well as non-u.s. governmental regulatory authorities. the u.s. department of justice ( doj ), the u.s. securities and exchange commission, other u.s. federal agencies and foreign governmental authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), other federal statutes, and foreign anti-bribery, anti-corruption and trade laws. under u.s. trading sanctions laws, the government authorities may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. if any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. our ability to comply with the fcpa and foreign anti-bribery laws is dependent on the success of our ongoing compliance program, including our ability to continue to supervise, train and retain competent employees. our compliance program also depends on the efforts of our employees to comply with applicable law. we could be subject to sanctions and civil and criminal prosecution as well as fines and penalties in the event of a finding of a violation of the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws by us or any of our employees. compliance with, and changes in, laws could be costly and could affect operating results. in addition, government disruptions could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. 20 table of contents we have operations in the u.s. and in approximately 70 countries that can be impacted by changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate, including new legislation, new regulations, new policies, investigations and legal proceedings and new interpretations of existing legal rules and regulations, export control laws or exchange control laws, additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries where we operate or intend to operate all could adversely impact our business. further, in some instances, direct or indirect consumers of our products and services, entities providing financing for purchases of our products and services or members of the supply chain for our products and services may become involved in governmental investigations, internal investigations, political or other enforcement matters. in such circumstances, such investigations may adversely impact the ability of consumers of our products, entities providing financial support to such consumers or entities in the supply chain to timely perform their business plans or to timely perform under agreements with us. the on-going, publicly disclosed investigations in brazil may continue to adversely impact our shipyard customers, their customers, entities providing financing for our shipyard customers and/or entities in the supply chain. we consummated a settlement with a shipyard customer on december 28, 2015 concerning seven contracts for the supply of drilling equipment packages for drillship construction projects in brazil (collectively the supply contracts ). pursuant to the terms of the settlement, the supply contracts have been terminated. we did not take a charge as a result of the settlement and, on a net basis, there was no change to our prior estimates on our brazil contracts impacting income; however we did reduce the rig systems segment backlog by $1.2 billion in the quarter. at december 31, 2015, our backlog included $1.8 billion for the remaining 15 rigs across three shipyards in brazil. the investigations in brazil have led to, and are expected to continue to lead to, delays in deliveries to our shipyard customers in brazil, along with temporary suspension of performance under our supply contracts, and could result in additional cancellations or other breaches of our contracts by our shipyard customers. our shipyard customers customer in brazil has stated its intent to build some of the drillships it originally contracted for with our shipyard customers. customers (typically drillship owners or drilling contractors) of our shipyard customers have sought and may in the future seek to suspend, delay or cancel their contracts or payments due to such shipyards. as a result, our shipyard customers have sought and may in the future seek to suspend, delay or cancel deliveries of our drilling equipment packages for the affected drillships. to the extent our shipyard customers and their customers become engaged in disputes or litigation related to any such suspensions, delays or cancellations, we may also become involved, either directly or indirectly, in such disputes or litigation, as we enforce the terms of our contracts with our shipyard customers. even though the contracts with our shipyard customers for the supply of drilling equipment packages do not provide for cancellation for convenience, in light of the decline in oil prices and the deterioration in the energy markets, we are starting to experience suspensions, delays and attempted cancellations with greater frequency. while we manage equipment deliveries and collection of payment to achieve milestone payments that mitigate our financial risk, such delays, suspensions, attempted cancellations, breaches of contract or other similar circumstances, could adversely affect our operating results and could reduce our backlog. sanctions imposed by the united states, european union and other countries could adversely impact our business activities in or related to russia and certain russian companies, including prohibitions of certain sales of goods and services, delays in executing construction or manufacturing projects, credit risk and adverse impacts due to currency fluctuations. to date, we have not identified any material adverse financial impact to our business from these sanctions. future trade regulations or sanctions, however, could result in adverse impacts on our operating results and financial condition. we have received u.s. federal grand jury subpoenas and subsequent inquiries from u.s. governmental agencies requesting records related to our compliance with u.s. export trade laws and regulations. we have cooperated fully with agents from the department of justice, the bureau of industry and security, the office of foreign assets control, and u.s. immigration and customs enforcement in responding to the inquiries. we have also 21 table of contents cooperated with an informal inquiry from the securities and exchange commission in connection with the inquiries previously made by the aforementioned federal agencies. we have conducted our own internal review of this matter. at the conclusion of our internal review in the fourth quarter of 2009, we identified possible areas of concern and discussed these areas of concern with the relevant agencies. we are currently negotiating a potential resolution with the agencies involved related to these matters. we currently anticipate that any administrative fine or penalty agreed to as part of a resolution would be within established accruals, and would not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. to the extent a resolution is not negotiated as anticipated, we cannot predict the timing or effect that any resulting government actions may have on our financial position or results of operations. the results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we earn revenues, pay expenses, purchase assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including, but not limited to, the canadian dollar, the euro, the british pound sterling, the norwegian krone and the south korean won. approximately 75% of our 2015 revenue was derived from sales outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. thus, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenue and operating income. because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net exposure to currency exchange fluctuations. we had forward contracts with a notional amount of $3,545 million (with a fair value of a net liability of $260 million) as of december 31, 2015, to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are also subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results. an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings. the company has approximately $7.0 billion of goodwill and $0.4 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2015. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances indicate they might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant sustained reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant sustained reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant sustained reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity; resulting in a possible increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. in the fourth quarter of 2015, the company impaired $1.6 billion of goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets. see additional discussion on goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets in critical accounting estimates of item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we 22 table of contents may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our businesses expose us to potential environmental, product or personal injury liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment or a product could fail to perform or cause personal injury which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or environmental damage and suspension of operations. our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other litigation and liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental, product or personal injury liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination or may exclude coverage for other reasons. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. 23 table of contents the u.s. congress is currently working on legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the united states, which includes establishing cap-and-trade programs. in addition to the pending climate legislation, the u.s. environmental protection agency has proposed regulations that would require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities, and may issue final rules this year. these changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. we had revenues of greater than 10% of total revenue from one of our customers during the year ended december 31, 2013. the loss of this customer (samsung heavy industries) or a significant reduction in its purchases could adversely affect our future revenues and earnings. samsung heavy industries is a shipyard acting as a general contractor for its customers, who are drillship owners and drilling contractors. this shipyard customers have specified that the company drilling equipment be installed on their drillships and have required the shipyard to issue contracts to the company. the company had revenues of 4% of total revenue and 7% of total revenue from samsung heavy industries for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger systems and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that any breach or interruption will be sufficiently limited. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 24 table of contents glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds ( pdcs ). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. borehole enlargement ( bhe ) the process opening up or enlarging the internal diameter of the wellbore. this is typically done with under-reamers, reamers, or hole openers. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. 25 table of contents coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe a spoolable glass fiber-reinforced epoxy composite tubular product for onshore oil and gas gathering and injection systems, with superior corrosion resistant properties and lower installed cost than steel. flexible pipe a dynamic riser that connects subsea production equipment to a topside facility allowing for the flow of oil, gas, and/or water. also used on the seafloor to tie wells and subsea equipment together. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. 26 table of contents fpso a floating production, storage and offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. hydraulic fracturing the process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1. in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four-or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four-or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. 27 table of contents kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. compare break out. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. mooring system the method by which a vessel or buoy is fixed to a certain position, whether permanently or temporarily. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment equipment used in: 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. 28 table of contents riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shaker see shale shaker shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and 29 table of contents wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. steerable technologies tools that allow for steering the bha towards a target while rotating from surface. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. tiebacks (subsea) a series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. turret mechanical device that allows a floating vessel to rotate around stationary flowlines, umbilicals, and other associated risers. 30 table of contents well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. wellhead the termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have extensive operations in foreign countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the company reported foreign currency gains (losses) of ($47) million, $20 million and ($24) million, respectively. gains and losses are primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency and adjustments to our hedged positions as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. strengthening of currencies against the u.s. dollar may create losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of our subsidiaries using the local currency as their functional currency. some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. similarly some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated u.s. dollar costs, which also give rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. 58 table of contents the following table details the company foreign currency exchange risk grouped by functional currency and their expected maturity periods as of december 31, 2015 (in millions except for rates): december 31, 2015 december 31, functional currency 2016 2017 total 2014 cad buy usd/sell cad: notional amount to buy (in canadian dollars) 10 10 66 average usd to cad contract rate 1.3759 1.3759 1.1632 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy cad: notional amount to sell (in canadian dollars) 136 136 285 average usd to cad contract rate 1.3554 1.3554 1.1511 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars (2 ) (2 ) (3 ) eur buy usd/sell eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 10 1 11 4 average usd to eur contract rate 0.8516 0.8843 0.8528 0.7933 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars 1 1 sell usd/buy eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 198 1 199 430 average usd to eur contract rate 0.8954 0.8771 0.8953 0.7832 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars (5 ) (5 ) (25 ) krw sell usd/buy krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 23,613 23,613 143,488 average usd to krw contract rate 1,181 1,181 1,104 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars gbp buy usd/sell gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 2 2 average usd to gbp contract rate 0.6416 0.6416 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars gbp sell usd/buy gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 170 170 205 average usd to gbp contract rate 0.6613 0.6613 0.6201 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars (5 ) (5 ) (6 ) usd buy cad/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 7 7 16 average cad to usd contract rate 0.7635 0.7635 0.9431 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars (1 ) buy dkk/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 24 24 75 average dkk to usd contract rate 0.1553 0.1553 0.1813 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) (6 ) buy eur/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 278 278 884 average eur to usd contract rate 1.1925 1.1925 1.3411 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars (23 ) (23 ) (77 ) buy gbp/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 20 20 147 average gbp to usd contract rate 1.5568 1.5568 1.5779 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) (3 ) buy nok/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 1,216 285 1,501 1,961 average nok to usd contract rate 0.1380 0.1252 0.1353 0.1642 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars (214 ) (25 ) (239 ) (276 ) 59 table of contents december 31, 2015 december 31, functional currency 2016 2017 total 2014 buy sgd/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 7 5 12 36 average sgd to usd contract rate 0.7716 0.7262 0.7534 0.7966 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 8 8 22 average dkk to usd contract rate 0.1510 0.1510 1.3625 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars 1 sell eur/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 89 89 251 average eur to usd contract rate 1.1075 1.1075 1.3109 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars 1 1 7 sell gbp/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 3 3 average gbp to usd contract rate 1.4961 1.4961 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars sell nok/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 107 3 110 348 average nok to usd contract rate 0.1325 0.1187 0.1321 0.1634 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars 15 15 44 sell rub/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 30 30 average rub to usd contract rate 0.0139 0.0139 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars 1 1 sell sgd/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 2 2 2 average sgd to usd contract rate 0.7082 0.7082 0.7678 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars brl buy eur/sell brl: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 199 199 average eur to brl contract rate 4.3679 4.3679 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars 1 1 sell eur/buy brl: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 427 427 average eur to brl contract rate 4.6985 4.6985 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars 4 4 dkk sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 1,396 1,396 59 average dkk to usd contract rate 6.5618 6.5618 5.9300 fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars (8 ) (8 ) other currencies fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars 2 2 total fair value at december 31, 2015 in u.s. dollars (235 ) (25 ) (260 ) (346 ) the company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies for transactional exposures totaling $157 million and translation exposures totaling $323 million as of december 31, 2015, excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on the transactional exposures financial market risk 60 table of contents sensitive instruments could affect net income by $10 million and the translational exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect the future fair value by $32 million. the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. historically, the venezuelan government has devalued the country currency. during the first quarters of 2015 and 2013, the venezuelan government again officially devalued the venezuelan bolivar against the u.s. dollar. as a result, the company incurred approximately $9 million and $12 million in devaluation charges in the first quarter of 2015 and 2013, respectively. the reporting currency of all of the company venezuelan entities is the u.s. dollar. the company remaining net investment in venezuela, which is largely u.s. dollar, was $25 million at december 31, 2015. during the fourth quarter of 2015, the argentinian government officially devalued the argentine peso against the u.s. dollar. as a result, the company incurred approximately $7 million of devaluation charges in the fourth quarter of 2015. the reporting currency of all of the company argentinian entities is the argentine peso. interest rate risk at december 31, 2015, long term borrowings consisted of $500 million in 1.35% senior notes, $1,396 million in 2.60% senior notes and $1,096 million in 3.95% senior notes, $893 million of commercial paper borrowings and no borrowings against our revolving credit facility. occasionally a portion of borrowings under our credit facility could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either libor, nibor or euribor, or at the u.s. prime rate. under our credit facility, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or euribor for 30 days to six months. our objective is to maintain a portion of our debt in variable rate borrowings for the flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without penalties and lower overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings. 61 table of contentsrisk factors and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview of oil and gas well construction processes oil and gas wells are usually drilled by drilling contractors using a drilling rig. a bit is attached to the end of a drill stem, which is assembled by the drilling rig and its crew from 30 or 45-foot joints of drill pipe and specialized drilling components known as downhole tools. using the conventional rotary drilling method, the drill stem is turned from the rotary table of the drilling rig by torque applied to the kelly, which is screwed into the top of the drill stem. increasingly, drilling is performed using a drilling motor, which is attached to the bottom of the drill stem and provides rotational force directly to the bit, or a top drive, a device suspended from the derrick that turns the entire drill stem, rather than such force being supplied by the rotary table. the use of drilling motors and top drives permits the drilling contractor to drill directionally, including horizontally. the company sells and rents drilling motors, agitators, drill bits, downhole tools and drill pipe through wellbore technologies, and sells top drives through rig systems. heavy drilling fluids, or drilling muds , are pumped down the drill stem and forced out through jets in the bit. the drilling mud returns to the surface through the space between the borehole wall and the drill stem, carrying with it the rock cuttings drilled out by the bit. the cuttings are removed from the mud by a solids control system (which can include shakers, centrifuges and other specialized equipment) and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. the solids control system permits the mud, which is often comprised of expensive chemicals, to be continuously reused and re-circulated back into the hole. rig systems sells the large mud pumps that are used to pump drilling mud through the drill stem, down and back up the hole. wellbore technologies sells and rents solids control equipment; and provides solids control, waste management and drilling fluids services. many operators internally coat the drill stem to improve its hydraulic efficiency and protect it from corrosive fluids sometimes encountered during drilling; have hardfacing alloys applied to drill pipe joints, collars and other components to protect tool joints and casing against wear; and inspect and assess the integrity of the drill pipe from time to time. wellbore technologies manufactures and sells drill pipe and provides coating, hard-banding , and drill pipe inspection and repair. as the hole depth increases, the kelly must be removed frequently so that additional joints of drill pipe can be added to the drill stem. when the bit becomes dull or the equipment at the bottom of the drill stem including the drilling motors otherwise requires servicing, the entire drill stem is pulled out of the hole and disassembled by disconnecting the joints of drill pipe. these are set aside or racked , the old bit is replaced or service is performed, and the drill stem is reassembled and lowered back into the hole (a process called tripping ). during drilling and tripping operations, joints of drill pipe must be screwed together and tightened ( made up ), and loosened and unscrewed ( spun out ). rig systems provides drilling equipment to manipulate and maneuver the drill pipe in this manner. when the hole has reached certain depths, all of the drill pipe is pulled out of the hole and larger diameter pipe known as casing is lowered into the hole and permanently cemented in place in order to protect against collapse and contamination of the hole. the casing is typically inspected before it is lowered into the hole, another service provided by wellbore technologies. wellbore technologies drilling optimization and automation maximizes bit performance in the wellbore by mitigating vibrations, dynamic and impact loading, and stick slip which ensures longer bit runs, reducing trips. hole openers from wellbore technologies, that mount above the drill bits in the drill stem, opens the tolerance of the hole to allow for easier and faster casing installation. completion &amp; production solutions manufactures pressure pumping equipment that is used to cement the casing in place. the rig hoisting system raises and lowers the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and lowers casing into the wellbore. a conventional hoisting system is a block and tackle mechanism that works within the drilling rig derrick. the mechanism is lifted by a series of pulleys that are attached to the drawworks at the base of the derrick. rig systems sells and installs drawworks and pipe hoisting systems. 3 table of contents during the course of normal drilling operations, the drill stem passes through different geological formations which exhibit varying pressure characteristics. if this pressure is not contained, oil, gas and/or water would flow out of these formations to the surface. containing reservoir pressures is accomplished primarily by the circulation of heavy drilling muds and secondarily by blowout preventers ( bops ), should the mud prove inadequate in an emergency situation. rig systems sells blowout preventers. drilling muds are carefully designed to exhibit certain qualities that optimize the drilling process. in addition to containing formation pressure, they must provide power to the drilling motor; carry drilled solids to the surface; protect the drilled formations from being damaged; and, cool the drill bit. achieving these objectives often requires a formulation specific to a given well, requires a high level of cleanliness for better bottom hole assembly and can involve the use of expensive chemicals as well as natural materials, such as certain types of clay. the fluid itself is often oil, or more expensive synthetic mud. given the cost, it is highly desirable to reuse as much of the drilling mud as possible. solids control equipment such as shale shakers, centrifuges, cuttings dryers, and mud cleaners help accomplish this objective. wellbore technologies rents, sells, operates and services this equipment. drilling muds are formulated based on expected drilling conditions. however, as the hole is drilled, the drill stem may encounter a high pressure zone where the mud density is inadequate to maintain sufficient pressure. should efforts to weight up the mud in order to contain such a pressure kick fail, a blowout could result, whereby reservoir fluids would flow uncontrolled into the well. a series of high-pressure valves known as blowout preventers are positioned at the top of the well and, when activated, form tight seals that prevent the escape of fluids to the surface. when closed, conventional bops prevent normal rig operations so the bops are activated only if drilling mud and normal well control procedures cannot safely contain the pressure. the operations of the rig and the condition of the drilling mud are closely monitored by various sensors, which measure operating parameters such as the weight on the rig hook, the incidence of pressure kicks, the operation of the drilling mud pumps, etc. wellbore technologies sells and rents drilling rig instrumentation packages that perform these monitoring functions. monitoring can be done at the well or remotely from selected centralized operation centers. during drilling operations the drilling rig and related equipment and tools are subject to severe stresses, pressures and temperatures, as well as a corrosive environment, and require regular repair and maintenance. rig aftermarket supplies spare parts and can dispatch field service engineers with the expertise to quickly repair and maintain equipment, minimizing down time. after the well has reached its total depth and the final section of casing has been set, the drilling rig is moved off and the well is prepared to begin producing oil or gas in a process known as well completion. well completion usually involves installing production tubing concentrically in the casing. due to the corrosive nature of many produced fluids, production tubing is often inspected and coated, services offered by wellbore technologies. sometimes operators choose to use corrosion resistant composite materials or alloys, sold by completion &amp; production solutions. from time to time, a producing well may undergo workover procedures to extend its life and/or increase its production rate. workover rigs are used to disassemble the wellhead, tubing and other completion components of an existing well in order to stimulate or remediate the well. workover rigs are similar to drilling rigs in their capabilities to handle tubing, but are usually smaller and somewhat less sophisticated. the company offers a comprehensive range of workover rigs through rig systems. tubing and sucker rods removed from a well during a well remediation operation are often inspected to determine their suitability to be reused in the well, a service wellbore technologies provides. frequently, coiled tubing units or wireline units are used to accomplish certain well remediation operations or well completions. coiled tubing consists of a continuous length of reeled steel tubing which can be injected concentrically into the production tubing all the way to the bottom of most wells. it permits many operations to be performed without disassembling the production tubing, and without curtailing the production of the well. wireline winch units are devices that utilize single-strand or multi-strand wires to perform well remediation operations, such as lowering tools and transmitting data to the surface. the completion &amp; production solutions segment manufactures and sells various types of coiled tubing and wireline equipment and tools. 4 table of contents rig systems the company rig systems segment makes and supports the capital equipment and integrated systems needed to drill oil and gas wells on land and offshore. the segment designs, manufactures, and sells land rigs, complete offshore drilling equipment packages, and drilling rig components that mechanize and automate many complex rig processes. equipment and technologies in rig systems include: power transmission systems, like drives and generators; substructures, derricks, and masts; pipe lifting, racking, rotating, and assembly systems; pressure control equipment, including blowout preventers; cranes; and rig instrumentation and control systems. top drives . the tds top drive drilling system, originally introduced by the company in 1982, significantly altered the traditional drilling process. the tds rotates the drill stem from its top, rather than by the rotary table, with a large electric motor affixed to rails installed in the derrick that traverses the length of the derrick to the rig floor, eliminating the conventional rotary table for drilling. components of the tds also are used to connect additional joints of drill pipe to the drill stem during drilling operations, enabling the use of three or four pre-connected joints of drill pipe at a time, compared to traditional drilling with one joint of drill pipe. additionally, the tds facilitates horizontal and extended reach drilling. electric rig motors. the company has helped lead the application of ac motor technology in the oilfield industry. the company buys motors from third parties and builds them in its own facilities and is further developing motor technology, including the introduction of permanent magnet drilling motors for use in top drives, cranes, mud pumps, winches, and drawworks. rotary equipment . the alternative to using a tds to rotate the drill stem is to use a rotary table, which rotates the pipe at the floor of the rig. rig systems produces rotary tables as well as kelly and master bushings. in 1998, the company introduced the rotary support table for use on rigs with a tds. the rotary support table is used in concert with the tds to completely eliminate the need for the larger conventional rotary table. pipe handling systems . pipe racking systems are used to handle drill pipe, casing and tubing on a drilling rig. vertical pipe racking systems move drill pipe and casing between the well and a storage ( racking ) area on the rig floor. horizontal racking systems are used to handle tubulars while stored horizontally (for example, on the pipe deck of an offshore rig) and transport tubulars up to the rig floor and into a vertical position for use in the drilling process. vertical pipe racking systems are used predominantly on offshore rigs and are found on almost all floating rigs. mechanical vertical pipe racking systems greatly reduce the manual effort involved in pipe handling. pipe racking systems, introduced by the company in 1985, provide a fully automated mechanism for handling and racking drill pipe during drilling and tripping operations, spinning and torquing drill pipe, and automatic hoisting and racking of disconnected joints of drill pipe. these functions can be integrated via computer controlled sequencing, and operated by a driller from an environmentally secure cabin. an important element of this system is the iron roughneck, which was originally introduced by the company in 1976 and is an automated device that makes pipe connections on the rig floor and requires less direct involvement of rig floor personnel in potentially dangerous operations. the automated roughneck is a microprocessor-controlled version of the iron roughneck. horizontal pipe transfer systems were introduced by the company in 1993. they include the pipe deck machine, which is used to manipulate and move stored tubulars; the pipe transfer conveyor, which transports sections of pipe to the rig floor; and a pickup laydown system, which raises the pipe to a vertical position for transfer to a vertical racking system. these components may be employed separately, or incorporated together to form a complete horizontal racking system, known as the pipe transfer system. pipe handling tools . the company pipe handling tools are designed to enhance the safety, efficiency and reliability of pipe handling operations. many of these tools have provided innovative methods of performing the designated task through mechanization of functions previously performed manually. rig systems manufactures various tools used to grip, hold, raise, and lower pipe, and in the making up and breaking out of drill pipe, workstrings, casing and production tubulars including spinning wrenches, manual tongs, torque wrenches and kelly spinners. mud pumps. mud pumps are high pressure pumps located on the rig that force drilling mud down the drill pipe, through the drill bit, and up the space between the drill pipe and the drilled formation (the annulus ) back to the surface. these pumps, which generate pressures of up to 7,500 psi, must therefore be capable of displacing drilling fluids thousands of feet down and back up the well bore. the conventional mud pump design, known as the triplex pump, uses three reciprocating pistons oriented horizontally. the company has introduced the hex pump, which uses six pumping cylinders, versus the three used in the triplex pump. along with other design features, the greater number of cylinders reduces pulsations (or surges) and increases the output available from a given footprint. reduced pulsation is desirable where downhole measurement equipment is being used during the drilling process, as is often the case in directional drilling. 5 table of contents hoisting systems . hoisting systems are used to raise or lower the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and to lower casing into the wellbore. the drawworks, the heart of the hoisting system, is a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line, which is in turn connected to the drill stem at the top of the derrick. the drawworks also plays an important role in keeping the weight on the drill bit at a desired level. this task is particularly challenging on offshore drilling rigs, which are subject to wave motion. to address this, the company has introduced the ahd active heave drilling drawworks which uses computer-controlled motors to compensate for the motion experienced in offshore drilling operations. cranes. the company provides a comprehensive range of crane solutions, with purpose-built products for all segments of the oil and gas industry as well as many other markets. the company has a broad collection of crane brand names with international recognition, and a large staff of engineers specializing in the design of cranes and related equipment. the product range extends from small cargo-handling cranes to the world largest marine cranes. in all, the company provides over twenty crane product lines that include standard model configurations as well as custom-engineered and specialty cranes. motion compensation systems . traditionally, motion compensation equipment is located on top of the drilling rig and serves to stabilize the bit on the bottom of the hole, increasing drilling effectiveness of floating offshore rigs by compensating for wave and wind action. the ahd drawworks, discussed above, was introduced to eliminate weight and improve safety, removing the compensator from the top of the rig and integrating it into the drawworks system. in addition to the ahd drawworks, the company has introduced an active heave compensation ( ahc ) system that goes beyond the capabilities of the ahd drawworks to handle the most severe weather. additionally, the company tensioning systems provide continuous axial tension to the marine riser pipe (larger diameter pipe which connects floating drilling rigs to the well on the ocean floor) and guide lines on floating drilling rigs, tension leg platforms and jack-up drilling rigs. blowout preventers . bops are devices used to seal the space between the drill pipe and the borehole and, if necessary, to also shear the drill pipe itself to prevent blowouts (uncontrolled flows of formation fluids and gases to the surface). rig systems manufactures a wide array of bops used in various applications from deepwater offshore vessels to land rigs. ram and annular bops are back-up devices that are activated only if other techniques for controlling pressure in the wellbore are inadequate. when closed, these devices prevent normal drilling operations. ram bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing rams (thick heavy blocks of steel) against each other across the wellbore. specially designed packers seal around specific sizes of pipe in the wellbore, shear pipe in the wellbore or close off an open hole. annular bops seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing a rubber packing unit around the drill pipe or kelly or by sealing against itself if nothing is in the hole. in 1998, the company introduced the nxt tm ram type bop which eliminates door bolts, providing significant weight, rig-time, and space savings. its unique features make subsea operation more efficient through faster ram configuration changes. in 2004, the company introduced the lxt tm ram type of bop, which features many of the design elements of the nxt tm , but is targeted at the land market. over the past five years considerable focus has been placed on robustness and reliability in the fundamental design of the equipment with extensive testing being performed in an r&amp;d facility opened in 2012. in 2013, the company acquired the t3 bop product line, further expanding its market offering of reliable, field proven designs for land based drilling applications. the shearmax tm line of low force bop shear rams released in 2010 add substantial tubular shearing capability to the company line of pressure control equipment, including the capability to shear large drill pipe tool joints, previously unheard of in the industry. this innovative shear blade design utilizes patented puncture technology to reduce the shearing pressures 50% or more and in some cases as much as five times lower. the shearmax blind shear provides a shear-and-seal design for drill pipe, while the casing and tjc shears address casing up to 16 od and most tool joints up to 2 wall thickness, respectively. derricks and substructures. drilling activities are carried out from a drilling rig. a drilling rig consists of one or two derricks; the substructure that supports the derrick(s); and the rig package, which consists of the various pieces of equipment discussed above. rig systems designs, fabricates and services derricks used in both onshore and offshore applications, and substructures used in onshore applications. rig systems also works with shipyards in the fabrication of substructures for offshore drilling rigs. land rig packages . the company designs, manufactures, assembles, upgrades, and supplies equipment sets to a variety of land drilling rigs, including those specifically designed to operate in harsh environments such as the arctic circle and the desert. our key land rig product names include the ideal rig , drake rig , and rapid rig tm . the company recent rig packages are designed to be safer and fast moving, to utilize ac technology, and to reduce manpower required to operate a rig. offshore drilling equipment packages. rig systems also provides the above major pieces of equipment in fully integrated equipment packages for offshore drilling rigs. by purchasing an entire drilling equipment package customers reap the benefits of rig systems integrated package engineering and installation and commissioning expertise, alleviating many of the potential problems of sourcing complex equipment that must work together from multiple vendors. customers and competition. rig systems sells directly to drilling contractors, rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumping companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and also through distribution companies. demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. 6 table of contents the products of rig systems are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or improved availability and delivery. the segment primary competitors are mhwirth; aker solutions; american electric technologies; american block; axon energy products; bentec; bomco; canrig (a division of nabors industries); cavins oil well tools; cameron international and omron corporation (divisions of schlumberger, ltd.); den-con tool company; forum energy technologies; general electric; hitec products; honghua; huisman; liebherr; parveen industries; rolls royce; siemens; stewart &amp; stevenson; soilmec and drillmec (a part of the trevi group); seatrax; tesco corporation; w&auml;rtsil&auml; and weatherford international. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting rig systems are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of spare parts and consumables, breadth of product line and price. rig aftermarket the company rig aftermarket segment provides comprehensive aftermarket products and services to support a large installed base of land and offshore rigs, and drilling rig components manufactured by the company rig systems segment. the segment provides spare parts, repair, and rentals as well as technical support, field service and first well support, field engineering, and customer training through a network of aftermarket service and repair facilities strategically located in major areas of drilling operations. spare parts. rig aftermarket maintains an inventory of spare parts, the majority manufactured by rig systems, across a global network of aftermarket service and repair facilities. technical support. rig aftermarket technical support centers troubleshoot and resolve equipment needs for customers. cross-disciplinary teams work together with field service technicians and subject matter experts to keep customers rigs in operation and utilize web-based applications to record, manage, and resolve issues. field service. field service engineers actively support rig equipment and technologies on location. based across a global network of aftermarket service and repair facilities, field service engineers can be deployed to operating sites worldwide to resolve equipment issues, whether structural, mechanical, electrical, or software-related. repair. rig aftermarket overhauls, repairs, rebuilds, and recertifies equipment to quality assurance and oem specifications using only oem parts. ehawk remote support. a subscription service available to customers, ehawk support centers provide fast issue response times. using satellite and computer technology, ehawk support centers can diagnose equipment status and work to handle issues remotely, reducing service personnel visits to the field. ehawk utilizes web-based applications to record, manage, and resolve issues. field engineering. rig aftermarket field engineering supports customers by providing rig-specific designs, modifications, and solutions as needed. services include rig surveys, proposal and design drawings, service manuals, and equipment installation. training centers and technical colleges. rig aftermarket training centers offering training for all equipment and technologies designed and manufactured by rig systems. training centers offer a varied curriculum that incorporates hands-on experience, use of equipment simulators, automated classrooms, and enhanced animations with cross-sectional cutouts. customers and competition. rig aftermarket supports land and offshore drillers. demand for the segment products and services depends on overall levels of oilfield drilling activity, which drives demand for spare parts, service, and repair for rig system large installed base of equipment; and secondarily on drilling contractors and oil and gas companies capital spending plans, specifically capital expenditures on rig refurbishments and re-certifications. the products of rig aftermarket are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or improved availability and delivery. the segment primary competitors are mhwirth; american electric technologies; american block; axon energy products; bentec; bomco; canrig (a division of nabors industries); cavins oil well tools; cameron international and omron corporation (divisions of schlumberger, ltd.); den-con tool company; forum energy technologies; general electric; hitec products; honghua; huisman liebherr; parveen industries; rolls royce; siemens; stewart &amp; stevenson; soilmec and drillmec (a part of the trevi group); seatrax; sparrows offshore; subsea solutions; tesco corporation; w&auml;rtsil&auml; and weatherford international. management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting rig aftermarket are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of spare parts and consumables, breadth of product line and price. 7 table of contents wellbore technologies the company wellbore technologies segment designs, manufactures, rents, and sells a variety of equipment and technologies used to perform drilling operations, and offers services that optimize their performance. key technologies and services include: drilling optimization and automation services, instrumentation, measuring and monitoring systems; drill bits; downhole tools, like downhole drilling motors and other steerable technologies; solids control and waste management equipment and services; drilling fluids; premium drill pipe, wired pipe and drill string accessories; tubular inspection, repair and coating services; fishing tools and hole openers; and portable power generation. the wellbore technologies segment focuses on oil and gas companies and supports drilling contractors, oilfield service companies, and oilfield rental companies. additional customers include steel mills and industrial companies. demand for wellbore technologies products and services primarily depends on the level of oilfield drilling activity by oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, and oilfield service companies, as measured by rig count, well count, and footage drilled. drill pipe products. the company designs, manufactures, and sells a full range of proprietary premium and api drill stem products used for the drilling of oil and gas wells, including drill pipe, heavy-weight drill pipe, drill collars, drill subs, and accessories. a drilling rig typically carries an inventory of 10,000 to 30,000 feet of drill pipe, which is consumed over time by the drilling process. during the drilling process, motors mounted on the rig rotate the drill pipe, bottom-hole assembly, and drill bit. in addition to driving the drill bit, drill pipe serves as the conduit for drilling fluids. the company offers a broad line of premium drilling products designed for the drilling of extended reach, directional, horizontal, deepwater, and ultra-deep wells in both international and domestic markets. voest-alpine tubulars ( vat ) . vat is a joint venture between the company and the austrian based voest-alpine group. the company has a 50.11% investment in the joint venture which is located in kindberg, austria. vat owns a tubular mill with an annual capacity of approximately 380,000 metric tons and is the primary supplier of green tubes, or raw material, for our u.s. based drill pipe production. vat is accounted for under the equity-method of accounting due to the minority owner having substantive participating rights. tubular coating . the company develops, manufactures and applies its proprietary tubular coatings, known as tube-kote &reg; coatings, to new and used drill pipe products and line pipe. tubular coatings help prevent corrosion, extending the life of tubular assets; reduce expensive interruptions in production; and improve hydraulic efficiency, increasing fluid flow rate up to 25%. the company also offers a mechanical fit connection that is very quick to field install and, when combined with internal coatings, provides a continuous internal surface of coatings throughout the connection. additionally, the company also offers other corrosion solutions such as fiberglass lined tubing for wells used for injection or enhanced oil recovery. tubular inspection. tubular inspection ensures the integrity of drill pipe products and tubulars used in completion and production. the company engineers and fabricates inspection equipment for steel mills, which it sells and rents. the equipment is used for quality control purposes to detect defects in the pipe during the high-speed manufacturing process. because not all mills use this equipment, newly manufactured tubulars may have serious defects not detected at the mill and/or incur damage during handling prior to use at the well site, while used tubulars may have service-induced flaws. consequently, e&amp;p companies typically have tubulars inspected before they are placed in service to reduce the risk of failures during drilling, completion, or production. tubular inspection techniques include electromagnetic, ultrasonic, magnetic flux leakage and gamma ray. inspection services are provided by mobile units at the wellhead as used tubing is removed from a well, and at fixed site locations. in addition to its tubular inspection product line, the company has a specialty inspection services group that performs rig inspections, drop surveys, lift gear inspections and derrick building services via rope access to service land and offshore drilling contractors. machining, repair and services. the company offers a variety of tubular machining services including: thread repair, tool joint rebuilding and sub manufacturing, providing a one-stop-shop concept for its drill pipe customers. drilling &amp; intervention. the company designs, manufactures and services a wide array of downhole drilling tools and offers all components for a comprehensive bottom hole assembly ( bha ). the company designs, manufactures, and services fixed cutter and roller cone drill bits and services its customer base in virtually every significant oil and gas producing region of the world. the company provides downhole drilling motors, capable of achieving higher rotary velocities than can generally be achieved using conventional surface rotary equipment, and ancillary motor technologies that improve drilling efficiency and extend the reach of horizontal drilling applications, like the agitator friction reduction tool. the company also manufactures steerable technologies that allow for borehole directional control, enabling more efficient drilling in more challenging formations. the company manufactures an extensive range of borehole enlargement tools to produce enlarged wellbores that bring production online faster. the company also sells and rents a comprehensive offering of leading fishing and thru-tubing tools to perform retrieval of stuck tools, remove debris, mill bridge plugs and similar devices, and manage well flow control. 8 table of contents through its coring services business line, the company enables the extraction of actual rock samples from a drilled well bore and allows geologists to examine the formations at the surface. dynamic drilling solutions. the company dynamic drilling solutions business combines product lines that are focused on drilling instrumentation and visualization solutions, data communication support, well monitoring, drilling performance software, directional measurement sensors and systems, and drilling automation and optimization. dynamic drilling solutions generates, collects, aggregates, communicates, and analyzes drilling data to provide our customers effective solutions for their well environments. the company instrumentation business provides drilling rig operators real time measurement and monitoring of critical parameters required to improve rig safety and efficiency. the company measurement and monitoring systems combine leading hardware and software technologies (both at the surface and in the wellbore) into an integrated drilling rig package. access of drilling data is provided to offsite locations, enabling company personnel to monitor drilling operations through a secure link. evolve optimization services. the evolve service is a technology offering designed to optimize drilling operations. the service equips existing rigs, rig crews, and engineers with tools and systems designed to deliver increased performance, enhanced real-time decision making, and comprehensive analytics capabilities. downhole tools and sensors, placed at multiple points in the drillstring, acquire pressure, dynamics, and measurement-while-drilling (mwd) information, transmitting real-time data to surface via wired drillpipe. the evolve service focuses on reducing well delivery time and costs, improving safety, and enhancing the quality of wellbores. directional sensors, steering tools, magnetic multi-shot tools, mud-pulse telemetry and electromagnetic measurement-while-drilling systems are offered by the company. these directional etools provide measurements and store the data in memory or use a telemetry pathway to transmit downhole data to the surface. at the surface this data is analyzed to optimize well trajectory and improve the drilling rate-of-penetration. managed pressure drilling equipment and support services enable improved kick detection and help manage wellbore pressures during drilling to permit accessing reserves in certain areas using chokes, manifolds, rotating control devices, continuous circulation systems, downhole sensors and optimized control systems. solids control and waste management . the company offers highly-engineered equipment and services to separate and manage drill cuttings produced by the drilling process ( solids control ). failing to remove drilled solids can negatively impact drilling operations, while good solids control improves drilling efficiency, promoting faster penetration rates that decrease the time to drill and reducing the need to dilute drilling fluids to maintain the desired liquids to solid ratio. the cuttings generated during drilling are usually contaminated with petroleum or drilling fluids, and must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. wellsite services manufactures state-of-the-art patented solids control equipment. upon the separation of the drill cuttings wellsite services provides waste management (both onsite and at centralized locations), including transport and storage. fluids services. the company is engaged in the provision of drilling fluids, completion fluids and other related services. drilling fluids are used to maintain well bore stability while drilling, control downhole pressure, lubricate and cool the drill bit, suspend and release cuttings, and transmit hydraulic energy to drilling tools and bits. the company provides water-, oil-, and synthetic-based drilling fluids. portable power generation. the company provides rental generators, lighting and other accessories for use in the upstream oil and gas industry, refinery and petrochemical operations, construction sites, events, disaster relief and other industries. nov intelliserv. nov intelliserv is a joint venture between the company and schlumberger, ltd. in which the company holds a 55% interest and maintains operational control. nov intelliserv manufactures wired pipe and ancillary wellbore data transmission products used to deliver high-speed bi-directional communication of downhole data. customers and competition. customers for wellbore technologies include major and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield equipment and product distributors and other manufacturers, oilfield service companies, steel mills, rental companies, and other industrial companies. the company competitors include: baker hughes; drill pipe masters; frank international; future pipe; halliburton; hanwei; hilong; patterson tubular services; precision tube; shawcor; schlumberger; superior energy services; texas steel conversion; vallourec &amp; mannesmann and weatherford international, along with a number of smaller regional competitors. 9 table of contents completion &amp; production solutions the company completion &amp; production solutions segment integrates technologies for well completions and oil and gas production. the segment designs, manufactures, and sells equipment and technologies needed for hydraulic fracture stimulation, including pressure pumping trucks, blenders, sanders, hydration units, injection units, flowline, manifolds, wellheads and completion tools; well intervention, including coiled tubing units, coiled tubing, and wireline units and tools; offshore production, including composite pipe, process equipment, floating production systems and subsea production technologies; and, onshore production including surface transfer and progressive cavity pumps, positive displacement reciprocating pumps, pressure vessels, and artificial lift systems. completion &amp; production solutions supports service companies and oil and gas companies. demand for completion &amp; production solutions products depends on the level of oilfield completions and workover activity by oilfield service companies and drilling contractors and capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and oilfield service companies. coiled tubing equipment . coiled tubing consists of flexible steel tubing manufactured in a continuous string and spooled on a reel. it can often extend over twenty thousand feet in length and is run in and out of the wellbore at a high rate of speed by a hydraulically operated coiled tubing unit. a coiled tubing unit is typically mounted on a truck, semi-trailer or skid (steel frames on which portable equipment is mounted to facilitate handling with cranes for offshore use) and consists of a hydraulically operated tubing reel or drum, an injector head which pushes or pulls the tubing in or out of the wellbore, and various power and control systems. coiled tubing is typically used with sophisticated pressure control equipment which permits the operator to perform workover operations on a live well. the completion &amp; production solutions segment manufactures and sells both coiled tubing units and the ancillary pressure control equipment used in these operations. currently, most coiled tubing units are used in well remediation and completion applications. the company believes that advances in the manufacturing process of coiled tubing, tubing fatigue protection and the capability to manufacture larger diameter and increased wall thickness coiled tubing strings have resulted in increased uses and applications for these products. for example, some well operators are now using coiled tubing in drilling applications such as slim-hole re-entries of existing wells. wireline equipment . the company wireline products include wireline drum units, which consist of a spool or drum of wireline cable, mounted in a mobile vehicle or skid, which works in conjunction with a source of power (an engine mounted in the vehicle or within a separate power pack skid). the wireline drum unit is used to spool wireline cable into or out of a well, in order to perform surveys inside the well, sample fluids from the bottom of the well, retrieve or replace components from inside the well, or to perform other well remediation or survey operations. the wireline used may be slick line , which is conventional single-strand steel cable used to convey tools in or out of the well, or electric line , which contains an imbedded single-conductor or multi-conductor electrical line which permits communication between the surface and electronic instruments attached to the end of the wireline at the bottom of the well. wireline units are usually used in conjunction with a variety of pressure control equipment which permits safe access into wells while they are flowing and under pressure at the surface. the company engineers and manufactures a broad range of pressure control equipment for wireline operations, including wireline blowout preventers, strippers, packers, lubricators and grease injection units. additionally, the company makes wireline rigging equipment such as mast trucks, and skidded masts for offshore rig-up. stimulation equipment . the company stimulation products include fracturing pumpers, acid units, blenders, control systems, sand handling systems, combo units, hydration and chemical additive systems as well as services and parts. additionally, the company sells, services, and rents portable flow line and well testing equipment. turret mooring systems. the company designs and manufacturers turret mooring systems and spread moored systems, and other products for floating production, storage and offloading ( fpsos ) and other offshore vessels and terminals. a turret mooring system consists of a geostatic part attached to the seabed and a rotating part integrated in the hull of the fpso, which are connected and allow the ship to weathervane (rotate) around the turret during production. flexible pipe systems. the company designs and manufactures flexible pipe products and systems for the offshore oil and gas industry, including products associated with fpso and other offshore production platforms, as well as subsea production systems including flexible risers, flowlines and jumpers. the product range consists of flexible pipe solutions from 2 16 , designed to operate under very demanding offshore conditions in all parts of the world. the products remain flexible even under very high working pressure, up to 1,000 bars, and at the same time they are able to withstand working temperatures from minus 50&deg; centigrade up to +130&deg; centigrade. flexible pipe systems are superior to other pipe solutions in respect of flexibility, ability to withstand different design conditions and capability to convey challenging mixtures of liquid and gaseous fluids. the company products are qualified for use in water depths down to 2,500 meters. the company also supplies a wide range of additional equipment such as accessories and steel structures required in each system configuration. 10 table of contents subsea products. the company provides critical equipment required for subsea production including subsea water injection treatment systems, subsea storage units, tie-in connector systems, active and passive cooling systems, subsea automatic pig launchers, pig tracking systems and weak-links for controlled disconnection on the seabed. fiberglass &amp; composite tubulars. the company designs, manufactures and markets filament-wound and molded fiberglass pipe and fittings as well as spoolable fiberglass pipe. these products are used by a wide range of petroleum, petrochemical and other industrial fluid and gas processing industries; for service station piping systems; aboard marine vessels, fpsos and offshore oil platforms; and, are marketed as an alternative to metallic piping systems which can fail under corrosive operating conditions. the company fiberspar business, manufactures and sells fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe to the oil and gas industry which provides a reliable, corrosion-resistant, cost-effective solution for the production and transportation of oil and gas. additionally, the company manufactures vessels, chambers, structures, and other bespoke components from composite materials allowing for a fit and forget solution across a diverse range of user applications, both onshore and offshore. xl systems. the company xl systems product line offers the customer an integrated package of large-bore tubular products and services for offshore or deep onshore wells. this product line includes the company proprietary line of wedge thread connections on large-bore tubulars and related engineering and design services. the company provides this product line for drive pipe, jet strings and conductor casing. the company produces large-bore tubulars with a high-strength, high-fatigue viper weld-on connector for use in deep-water and other environments where an extremely robust connector is needed. the company also offers service personnel in connection with the installation of all of these products. process and flow technologies. the company serves its customers in various markets by designing, manufacturing and distributing integrated solutions and discrete products, including wellstream processing systems (dynamic oil recovery, water treatment, phased separation, hydrate inhibition, and gas processing) pumping technologies (reciprocating, multistage and progressive cavity pumps), chokes, midstream products (closures, transfer pumps and valves), artificial lift systems (stuffing boxes, drive heads, pcp, control boxes, polished rod accessories, and hydraulic pumping units), mixing and agitation equipment, heat exchangers, and other general oilfield products (critical service hookups, pumping tees, and production bop s). these products are used by a highly-diversified customer base with presence in both oil and gas and industrial markets, of which the latter includes waste water treatment, mining, and chemical processing. pumps &amp; expendables . the company designs, manufactures, and sells pumps and expendables that are used in oil and gas drilling operations, well service operations, production applications, as well as industrial applications. these pumps include reciprocating positive displacement piston and plunger pumps and high pressure mud pumps. these pumps are sold as individual units and unitized packages with drivers, controls and piping. the company also manufactures fluid end expendables (liners, valves, pistons, and plungers). the company offers popular industry brand names including: wheatley, gaso, national, oilwell, msw, and omega reciprocating pumps. completion tools . the company designs, manufactures and installs well completion tools that are primarily focused on the horizontal multi-stage fracturing (hmsf) market. hmsf wells are found in many of the oil and gas producing basins of the world and involve segmenting the horizontal section of the wellbore into smaller compartments that can be stimulated independently. specially designed sliding sleeves are inserted at regular intervals in the production casing and are opened on demand during the stimulation operation. these sliding sleeves can be configured to activate with a variety of methods including dropping balls from surface or by using custom designed coiled tubing tools. in addition, the company provides custom designed intervention tools that can be used to improve production from the hmsf completion by opening or closing sleeves that may be producing water or sand. the business provides equipment and services to a diverse group of oil and gas companies in north america and international markets including the north sea. customers and competition. the primary customers for the products and services offered by the completion &amp; productions solutions segment include well servicing companies, oil and gas companies, and fabricators, as well as distributors in select markets. competitors include: cameron international (a division of schlumberger, ltd.); circor international; corpro (a division of als); dover; drilquip; fmc technologies; forum energy technologies; ge oil &amp; gas; stewart &amp; stevenson; technip; roper industries; weir group; and a number of regional competitors. management believes that on-site support is becoming a more important competitive element in this market, and other competitive factors affecting the business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, product availability and technology, breadth of product line and price. available information the company principal executive offices are located at 7909 parkwood circle drive, houston, texas 77036. its telephone number is (713) 346-7500. the company common stock is traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol nov . further information about the company products and services can be found on its website at: http://www.nov.com. the company annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all related amendments are available free of charge on the investor relations portion of the company website, www.nov.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the company code of ethics is also posted on its website. 11 table of contents 2016 acquisitions and other investments during 2016, the company completed a total of 10 acquisitions and other investments for an aggregate cash investment of $230 million, net of cash acquired and $18 million of nov stock. seasonal nature of the company business historically, activity levels of some of the company segments have followed seasonal trends to some degree. in canada, wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions typically realized high first quarter activity levels, as operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling and production areas. in past years, certain canadian businesses within wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions have declined during the second quarter due to warming weather conditions which resulted in thawing, softer ground, difficulty accessing drill sites, and road bans that curtailed drilling activity ( canadian breakup ). however, these segments have typically rebounded in the third and fourth quarter. wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions activity in the u.s. sometimes increases during the third quarter and then peaks in the fourth quarter as operators spend the remaining drilling and/or production capital budgets for that year. wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions revenues in the rocky mountain region sometimes decline in the late fourth quarter or early first quarter due to harsh winter weather. the company fiberglass and composite tubulars business in china has typically declined in the first quarter due to the impact of weather on manufacturing and installation operations, and due to business slowdowns associated with the chinese new year. in general, rig systems and rig aftermarket have experienced minor seasonal fluctuation with orders for aftermarket spare parts and repair sometimes rising in the fourth quarter (as annual budgets are used up) and then falling in the first quarter. there can be no guarantee that seasonal effects will not influence future sales in these segments. the company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue. however, there can be no guarantee that spending by the company customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past. marketing and distribution network substantially all of rig systems capital equipment and rig aftermarket spare parts sales, and a large portion of our smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through our direct sales force and distribution service centers. sales to foreign oil companies are often made with or through representative arrangements. products within wellbore technologies and completion &amp; production solutions are rented and sold worldwide through our own sales force and through commissioned representatives. completion &amp; production solutions customers are predominantly service companies and oil and gas companies. demand for the company completion &amp; production solutions segment products depends on the level of oilfield completions and workover activity by oilfield service companies and drilling contractors and capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and oilfield service companies. the company foreign operations, which include significant operations in canada, europe, russia, the far east, the middle east, africa and latin america, are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including foreign currency exchange risks and uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the company operates have adopted policies (or are subject to governmental policies) giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of such policies, the company relies on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding geographic revenue information. research and new product development and intellectual property the company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights. as of december 31, 2016, the company held a substantial number of united states patents and had additional patent applications pending. as of this date, the company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to inventions covered by the united states patents. additionally, the company maintains a substantial number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets. expiration dates of such patents range from 2017 to 2036. 12 table of contents although the company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. the company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenue from new products. manufacturing and service locations the manufacturing processes for the company products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components and testing. most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel. the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. rig systems provides drilling rig components, as well as complete land drilling rigs, and offshore drilling equipment packages. the primary manufacturing facilities are located in houston, texas; orange, california; and ulsan, south korea. rig aftermarket provides comprehensive aftermarket products and services to support land rigs and offshore rigs, and drilling rig components manufactured by rig systems. primary facilities are located in houston, texas; new iberia, louisiana; aberdeen, scotland; singapore; and dubai, uae. wellbore technologies designs, manufactures, rents, and sells a variety of equipment and technologies used to perform drilling operations, and offers services that optimize their performance, including: solids control and waste management equipment and services, drilling fluids, premium drill pipe, wired pipe, drilling optimization services, tubular inspection and coating services, instrumentation, downhole tools, and drill bits. primary facilities are located in houston, conroe, navasota, cedar park, texas; veracruz, mexico; and dubai, uae. completion &amp; production solutions integrates technologies for well completions and oil and gas production. the segment designs, manufactures, and sells equipment and technologies needed for hydraulic fracture stimulation, including pressure pumping trucks, blenders, sanders, hydration units, injection units, flowline, manifolds and wellheads; well intervention, including coiled tubing units, coiled tubing, and wireline units and tools; onshore production, including composite pipe, surface transfer and progressive cavity pumps, and artificial lift systems; and, offshore production, including floating production systems and subsea production technologies. primary facilities are located in houston, fort worth, texas; tulsa, oklahoma; senai, malaysia; kalundborg, denmark; superporto du acu, brazil; and manchester, england. raw materials the company believes that materials and components used in its operations are generally available from multiple sources. the prices paid by the company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. the company has experienced rising, declining and stable prices for mild steel and standard grades in line with broader economic activity and has generally seen specialty alloy prices continue to rise, driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. the company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to, and adjusting prices on, the products it sells. higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. backlog the company monitors its backlog of orders within its rig systems and completion &amp; production solutions segments to guide its planning. backlog includes orders which typically require more than three months to manufacture and deliver. backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. most require reimbursement to the company for costs incurred in such an event. there can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the company will earn a profit on backlog work. backlog for rig systems at december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, was $2.5 billion, $6.1 billion and $12.5 billion, respectively. backlog for completion &amp; production solutions at december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $0.8 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. 13 table of contents employees at december 31, 2016, the company had a total of 36,627 employees, of which 487 were temporary employees. approximately 380 employees in the u.s. are subject to collective bargaining agreements. additionally, certain of the company employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. the company believes its relationship with its employees is good. 14 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile and has caused, and may cause future, fluctuations in our operating results. the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our products and services depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including the: current and anticipated future prices for oil and natural gas; volatility of prices for oil and natural gas; ability or willingness of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to maintain or influence price stability through voluntary production limits; level of production by non-opec countries; level of excess production capacity; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity and associated demand for oil and gas; availability and access to potential hydrocarbon resources; national government political requirements; fluctuations in political conditions in the united states and abroad; currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations; development of alternate energy sources; and, environmental regulations. the significant oil and gas industry downturn that began in the second half of 2014 resulted in reduced demand for oilfield services, which has had, and may continue to have, a significant adverse impact on our financial results. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, and other service companies, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. although oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, have increased in recent months, prices may remain below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which could continue the reduced demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. this volatility in oil and gas prices and in the oil and gas industry has caused fluctuations in our quarterly operating results in the past. we cannot assure you that we will realize earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors expectations. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our equipment. as of december 31, 2016, we had a backlog of capital equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by rig systems and completion &amp; production solutions in the amount of $2.5 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely impact completion of these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties: financial challenges for consumers of our capital equipment; credit market conditions for consumers of our capital equipment; 15 table of contents our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control; and, the imposition of tarrifs or duties between countries, which could materially affect our global supply chain. the company existing contracts for rig equipment generally carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and the majority do not allow customers to cancel projects for convenience. however, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. competition in our industry, including the introduction of new products and technologies by our competitors, as well as the expiration of the intellectual property rights protecting our products and technologies, could ultimately lead to lower revenue and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following can each affect our revenue and earnings: price changes; improvements in the availability and delivery of products and services by our competitors; the introduction of new products and technologies by our competitors; and, the expiration of intellectual property rights protecting our products and technologies. we are a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes. our revenues and operating results have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through our internal development programs and acquisitions, we have assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights, some of which expire in the near future. the expiration of these rights could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. furthermore, while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenue from new products. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. actions taken by our competitors and changes in local policies, preferences or regulations could impact our ability to compete in certain markets and adversely affect our financial results. there are risks associated with our presence in the u.s. and international markets, including political or economic instability, tax, potential changes to tariffs and trade disputes, currency restrictions, and trade and economic sanctions. approximately 75% of our revenues in 2016 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in argentina, canada, brazil, europe, the middle east, china, africa, nigeria, southeast asia, russia, latin america and other international markets. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. as a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. in addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and government-owned petroleum companies or oilfield service companies. 16 table of contents we manufacture and deliver products and provide services throughout the world. these operations involve complex, international supply chains. our supply of materials for manufacturing and our channels to market involve import and export of materials and products to facilities and customers. the imposition of tariffs, retaliatory trade disputes, anti-dumping laws and regulations and other such trade restrictions could materially increase our costs, reduce sales, adversely impact our margins or completely restrict our ability to conduct business in certain markets. our operations outside the united states could also expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states as well as non-u.s. governmental regulatory authorities. the u.s. department of justice ( doj ), the u.s. securities and exchange commission, other u.s. federal agencies and foreign governmental authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), other federal statutes, and foreign anti-bribery, anti-corruption and trade laws. under u.s. trading sanctions laws, the government authorities may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. if any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. our ability to comply with the fcpa and foreign anti-bribery laws is dependent on the success of our ongoing compliance program, including our ability to continue to supervise, train and retain competent employees. our compliance program also depends on the efforts of our employees to comply with applicable law. we could be subject to sanctions and civil and criminal prosecution as well as fines and penalties in the event of a finding of a violation of the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws by us or any of our employees. compliance with, and changes in, laws could be costly and could affect operating results. in addition, government disruptions could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. further, in some instances, direct or indirect consumers of our products and services, entities providing financing for purchases of our products and services or members of the supply chain for our products and services may become involved in governmental investigations, internal investigations, political or other enforcement matters. in such circumstances, such investigations may adversely impact the ability of consumers of our products, entities providing financial support to such consumers or entities in the supply chain to timely perform their business plans or to timely perform under agreements with us. we have operations in the u.s. and in approximately 65 countries that can be impacted by changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate, including new legislation, new regulations, new policies, investigations and legal proceedings and new interpretations of existing legal rules and regulations, export control laws or exchange control laws, additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries where we operate or intend to operate all could adversely impact our business. we are subject to audits and imposition of taxation by different tax authorities internationally. the occurrence of audits may increase depending on a variety of factors including: the level of enforcement, political circumstance, and potential for revenue generation. such factors are not within our control. further, although there are international tax treaties designed to minimize the risk of double taxation, or inconsistent treatment by taxing authorities, the potential still exists for inconsistent treatment by multiple jurisdictions. as the result of such audits, taxes could be imposed that result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. customers (typically drillship owners or drilling contractors) of our shipyard customers have sought and may in the future seek to suspend, delay or cancel their contracts or payments due to such shipyards. as a result, our shipyard customers have sought and may in the future seek to suspend, delay or cancel deliveries of our drilling equipment packages. to the extent our shipyard customers and their customers become engaged in disputes or litigation related to any such suspensions, delays or cancellations, we may also become involved, either directly or indirectly, in such disputes or litigation, as we enforce the terms of our contracts with our shipyard customers. while we manage equipment deliveries and collection of payment to achieve milestone payments that mitigate our financial risk, such delays, suspensions, attempted cancellations, breaches of contract or other similar circumstances, could adversely affect our operating results and could reduce our backlog. sanctions imposed by the united states, european union and other countries could adversely impact our business activities in or related to russia and certain russian companies, including prohibitions of certain sales of goods and services, delays in executing construction or manufacturing projects, credit risk and adverse impacts due to currency fluctuations. to date, we have not identified any material adverse financial impact to our business from these sanctions. future trade regulations or sanctions, however, could result in adverse impacts on our operating results and financial condition. 17 table of contents the results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we earn revenues, pay expenses, purchase assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including, but not limited to, the canadian dollar, the euro, the british pound sterling, the norwegian krone and the south korean won. approximately 75% of our 2016 revenue was derived from sales outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. thus, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenue and operating income. because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net exposure to currency exchange fluctuations. we had forward contracts with a notional amount of $2,219 million (with a fair value of a net liability of $15 million) as of december 31, 2016, to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are also subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results. an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings. the company has approximately $6.1 billion of goodwill and $0.4 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2016. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances indicate they might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant sustained reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant sustained reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant sustained reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity; resulting in a possible increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. in the third quarter of 2016, the company impaired $972 million of goodwill. see additional discussion on goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets in critical accounting estimates of item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our businesses expose us to potential environmental, product or personal injury liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment or a product could fail to perform or cause personal injury, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or, environmental damage and suspension of operations. our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other litigation and liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; 18 table of contents breach of contract with customers; or, as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental, product or personal injury liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination or may exclude coverage for other reasons. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or, the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the adoption of climate change legislation, restrictions on emissions of greenhouse gases, or other environmental regulations could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. the u.s. congress and other governments routinely consider legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gasses and other climate change related legislation, which could require significant reductions in emissions from oil and gas related operations. additionally, recent concerns regarding the potential impact of hydraulic stimulation, or fracking , activities have resulted in government officials promulgating regulations to impose certain operational restrictions and disclosure requirements on oil and gas companies. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger systems and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that any breach or interruption will be sufficiently limited. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. local content requirements imposed in certain jurisdictions may increase the complexity of our operations and impact the demand for our services. a growing number of nations are requiring equipment providers and contractors to meet local content requirements or other local standards. our ability to work in certain jurisdictions is sometimes subject to our ability to successfully negotiate and agree upon acceptable joint venture agreements. the failure to reach acceptable agreements could adversely impact the company operations in certain countries. additionally, we may share control of joint ventures with unaffiliated third parties. differences in views, and disagreements, among joint venture parties may result in delayed decision making and disputes on important issues. in some instances, we could suffer a material adverse effect to the results of our joint ventures and our consolidated results of operations. our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel at competitive cost could materially affect our operations and growth potential. many of the products we sell, and related services that we provide, are complex and technologically advanced, which enable them to perform in challenging conditions. our ability to succeed is, in part, dependent on our success in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to provide service and to design, manufacture, use, install and commission our products. a significant increase in wages paid by competitors, both within and outside the energy industry, for such highly skilled personnel could result in insufficient availability of skilled labor or increase our labor costs, or both. if the supply of skilled labor is constrained or our costs increase, our margins could decrease and our growth potential could be impaired. 19 table of contents we have expanded our businesses through acquisitions and intend to maintain a growth strategy. we have expanded and grown our businesses through acquisitions and continue to pursue a growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. 20 table of contents glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds ( pdcs ). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. borehole enlargement ( bhe ) the process opening up or enlarging the internal diameter of the wellbore. this is typically done with under-reamers, reamers, or hole openers. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. 21 table of contents drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe a spoolable glass fiber-reinforced epoxy composite tubular product for onshore oil and gas gathering and injection systems, with superior corrosion resistant properties and lower installed cost than steel. flexible pipe a dynamic riser that connects subsea production equipment to a topside facility allowing for the flow of oil, gas, and/or water. also used on the seafloor to tie wells and subsea equipment together. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. fpso a floating production, storage and offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. hydraulic fracturing the process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1. in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four-or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four-or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 or 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. 22 table of contents kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. mooring system the method by which a vessel or buoy is fixed to a certain position, whether permanently or temporarily. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment equipment used in: 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. 23 table of contents safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. steerable technologies tools that allow for steering the bha towards a target while rotating from surface. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. tiebacks (subsea) a series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. 24 table of contents trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. turret mechanical device that allows a floating vessel to rotate around stationary flowlines, umbilicals, and other associated risers. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. wellhead the termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have extensive operations in foreign countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, the company reported foreign currency gains (losses) of ($10) million, $(47) million and $20 million, respectively. gains and losses are primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency and adjustments to our hedged positions as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. strengthening of currencies against the u.s. dollar may create losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of our subsidiaries using the local currency as their functional currency. some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. similarly some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated u.s. dollar costs, which also give rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. the following table details the company foreign currency exchange risk grouped by functional currency and their expected maturity periods as of december 31, 2016 (in millions except for rates): december 31, 2016 december 31, functional currency 2017 2018 2019 2020 total 2015 cad buy usd/sell cad: notional amount to buy (in canadian dollars) 40 35 75 10 average usd to cad contract rate 1.3286 1.3242 1.3265 1.3759 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy cad: notional amount to sell (in canadian dollars) 95 24 141 260 136 average usd to cad contract rate 1.3068 1.3167 1.3147 1.3120 1.3554 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars (2 ) (2 ) (2 ) eur buy usd/sell eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 3 3 11 average usd to eur contract rate 0.9309 0.9309 0.8528 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars 1 sell usd/buy eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 104 104 199 average usd to eur contract rate 0.9206 0.9206 0.8953 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars (3 ) (3 ) (5 ) sell zar/buy eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 8 8 average usd to eur contract rate 0.0555 0.0555 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars (2 ) (2 ) krw sell usd/buy krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 40,674 40,674 23,613 average usd to krw contract rate 1,162 1,162 1,181 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) gbp buy usd/sell gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 1 1 2 average usd to gbp contract rate 0.8028 0.8028 0.6416 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 169 169 170 average usd to gbp contract rate 0.7844 0.7844 0.6613 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars (6 ) (6 ) (5 ) sell eur/buy gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 1 1 average usd to gbp contract rate 0.8604 0.8604 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars 51 table of contents december 31, 2016 december 31, functional currency 2017 2018 2019 2020 total 2015 usd buy cad/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 1 1 7 average cad to usd contract rate 0.7559 0.7559 0.7635 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars buy dkk/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 10 10 24 average dkk to usd contract rate 0.1509 0.1509 0.1553 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) buy eur/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 81 81 278 average eur to usd contract rate 1.1114 1.1114 1.1925 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars (4 ) (4 ) (23 ) buy gbp/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 3 3 20 average gbp to usd contract rate 1.2516 1.2516 1.5568 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars (1 ) buy nok/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 618 119 737 1,501 average nok to usd contract rate 0.1232 0.1228 0.1231 0.1353 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars (35 ) (6 ) (41 ) (239 ) buy sgd/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 5 5 12 average sgd to usd contract rate 0.7262 0.7262 0.7534 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars (1 ) sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 2 2 8 average dkk to usd contract rate 0.1481 0.1481 0.1510 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars sell eur/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 29 29 89 average eur to usd contract rate 1.1059 1.1059 1.1075 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars 1 1 1 sell gbp/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 1 1 3 average gbp to usd contract rate 1.2549 1.2549 1.4961 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars sell nok/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 21 21 110 average nok to usd contract rate 0.1183 0.1183 0.1321 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars 15 sell rub/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 30 30 30 average rub to usd contract rate 0.0158 0.0158 0.0139 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars 1 sell sgd/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 2 2 2 average sgd to usd contract rate 0.7006 0.7006 0.7082 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars brl buy eur/sell brl: notional amount to sell (in brazilian real) 326 326 199 average eur to brl contract rate 4.1974 4.1974 4.3679 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars (13 ) (13 ) 1 buy usd/sell brl: notional amount to sell (in brazilian real) 27 27 average eur to brl contract rate 4.0278 4.0278 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) sell eur/buy brl: notional amount to sell (in brazilian real) 1,440 1,440 427 average eur to brl contract rate 4.2950 4.2950 4.6985 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars 59 59 4 sell usd/buy brl: notional amount to sell (in brazilian real) 23 23 average eur to brl contract rate 3.6378 3.6378 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars 52 table of contents december 31, 2016 december 31, functional currency 2017 2018 2019 2020 total 2015 dkk buy usd/sell dkk: notional amount to buy (in danish krone) 22 22 average dkk to usd contract rate 7.1140 7.1140 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy dkk: notional amount to buy (in danish krone) 855 855 1,396 average dkk to usd contract rate 6.9660 6.9660 6.5618 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) (8 ) nok buy eur/sell nok: notional amount to sell (in norwegian kroner) 225 6 231 average eur to brl contract rate 9.1849 9.2781 9.1872 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars buy gbp/sell nok: notional amount to sell (in norwegian kroner) 2 2 average eur to brl contract rate 10.7029 10.7029 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars buy usd/sell nok: notional amount to sell (in norwegian kroner) 21 21 average eur to brl contract rate 8.7062 8.7062 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars buy jpy/sell nok: notional amount to sell (in norwegian kroner) 58 58 average eur to brl contract rate 0.0748 0.0748 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars sell eur/buy nok: notional amount to sell (in norwegian kroner) 106 14 120 average eur to brl contract rate 9.2059 9.2781 9.2144 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy nok: notional amount to sell (in norwegian kroner) 125 1 126 average eur to brl contract rate 8.7033 8.6642 8.7030 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars sell jpy/buy nok: notional amount to sell (in norwegian kroner) 45 6 51 average eur to brl contract rate 0.0749 0.0758 0.0750 fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars other currencies fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars 2 total fair value at december 31, 2016 in u.s. dollars (9 ) (6 ) (15 ) (260 ) the company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies for transactional exposures totaling $58 million and translation exposures totaling $240 million as of december 31, 2016, excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on the transactional exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect net income by $4 million and the translational exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect the future fair value by $24 million. the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. historically, the venezuelan government has devalued the country currency. during the first quarter of 2015, the venezuelan government officially devalued the venezuelan bolivar against the u.s. dollar. as a result, the company incurred approximately $9 million in devaluation charges in the first quarter of 2015. the reporting currency of all of the company venezuelan entities is the u.s. dollar. the company remaining net investment in venezuela, which is largely u.s. dollar, was nil at december 31, 2016. during the fourth quarter of 2015, the argentinian government officially devalued the argentine peso against the u.s. dollar. as a result, the company incurred approximately $7 million of devaluation charges in the fourth quarter of 2015. the reporting currency of all of the company argentinian entities is the argentine peso. 53 table of contents interest rate risk at december 31, 2016, long term borrowings consisted of $499 million in 1.35% senior notes, $1,391 million in 2.60% senior notes and $1,087 million in 3.95% senior notes, no commercial paper borrowings and no borrowings against our revolving credit facility. occasionally a portion of borrowings under our credit facility could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either libor, nibor or euribor, or at the u.s. prime rate. under our credit facility, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or euribor for 30 days to six months. our objective is to maintain a portion of our debt in variable rate borrowings for the flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without penalties and lower overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings. 54 table of contentsrisk factors and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. seasonal nature of the company business historically, activity levels of some of the company segments have followed seasonal trends to some degree. extremely harsh winter weather can reduce oilfield operations in far northern or high-altitude locations, including parts of colorado, canada, russia and china, and the annual thaw (or breakup ) in canada makes some unimproved roads inaccessible to heavy equipment during part of each second quarter. both situations temporarily reduce demand for of the company products and services in the effected geographic area, although revenues generally recover once conditions improve. fluctuations in customer activity levels caused by national or customary holiday seasons and annual budgetary cycles can also affect their spending levels with the company, leading to both temporary local decreases and increases in sales. the company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue, however, there can be no guarantee that spending by the company customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past. research and new product development and intellectual property the company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights. 8 as of december 31, 2017, the company held a substantial number of united states patents and had additional patent applications pending. as of this date, the company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to inventions covered by the united states patents. additionally, the company maintains a substantial number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets. expiration dates of such patents range from 2018 to 2037. although the company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. the company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers, and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenue from new products. manufacturing and service locations the manufacturing processes for the company products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components, and testing. most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel. the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components, and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. wellbore technologies designs, manufactures, rents, and sells a variety of equipment and technologies used to perform drilling operations, and offers services that optimize their performance, including: solids control and waste management equipment and services, drilling fluids, premium drillpipe, wired pipe, drilling optimization services, tubular inspection and coating services, instrumentation, downhole tools, and drill bits. primary facilities are located in houston, conroe, navasota, and cedar park, texas; veracruz, mexico; and dubai, uae. completion &amp; production solutions integrates technologies for well completions and oil and gas production. the segment designs, manufactures, and sells equipment and technologies needed for hydraulic fracture stimulation, including pressure pumping trucks, blenders, sanders, hydration units, injection units, flowline, manifolds, and wellheads; well intervention, including coiled tubing units, coiled tubing, and wireline units and tools; onshore production, including composite pipe, surface transfer and progressive cavity pumps, and artificial lift systems; and offshore production, including floating production systems and subsea production technologies. primary facilities are located in houston, and fort worth, texas; tulsa, oklahoma; senai, malaysia; kalundborg, denmark; superporto du acu, brazil; and manchester, england. rig technologies provides drilling rig components, complete land drilling rigs, and offshore drilling equipment packages. primary manufacturing facilities are located in houston, texas; orange, california; new iberia, louisiana; singapore; and dubai, uae. raw materials the company believes that materials and components used in its operations are generally available from multiple sources. the prices paid by the company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel, and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. the company has experienced rising, declining, and stable prices for milled steel and standard grades in line with broader economic activity and has generally seen specialty alloy prices continue to rise, driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. the company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to, and adjusting prices on, the products it sells. higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. backlog the company monitors its backlog of orders within its completion &amp; production solutions and rig technologies segments to guide its planning. backlog includes orders which typically require more than three months to manufacture and deliver. backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders that are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. most require reimbursement to the company for costs incurred in such an event. there can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the company will earn a profit on backlog work. backlog for completion &amp; production solutions at december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was $1.1 billion, $0.8 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. backlog for rig technologies at december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, was $1.9 billion, $2.5 billion and $6.1 billion, respectively. employees at december 31, 2017, the company had a total of 31,889 employees, of which 568 were temporary employees. approximately 344 employees in the u.s. are subject to collective bargaining agreements. additionally, certain employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. based upon the geographical diversification of these employees, we do not believe any risk of loss from employee strikes or other collective actions would be material to the conduct of our operations taken as a whole. 9 available information the company principal executive offices are located at 7909 parkwood circle drive, houston, texas 77036. its telephone number is (713) 346-7500. further information about the company products and services can be found on its website at: http://www.nov.com. the company common stock is traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol nov . the company annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all related amendments are available free of charge on the investor relations portion of the company website, www.nov.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the company code of ethics is also posted on its website. 10 item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile and has caused, and may cause future, fluctuations in our operating results. the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our products and services depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including the: current and anticipated future prices for oil and natural gas; volatility of prices for oil and natural gas; ability or willingness of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other countries, such as russia, to maintain or influence price stability through voluntary production limits; level of production by non-opec countries; level of excess production capacity; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity and associated demand for oil and gas; availability and access to potential hydrocarbon resources; national government political requirements; fluctuations in political conditions in the united states and abroad; currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations; development of alternate energy sources; and, environmental regulations. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, and other service companies, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. although oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, have increased in recent months, prices may remain below a range that is acceptable to certain of our customers, which could continue the reduced demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our equipment. as of december 31, 2017, we had a backlog of capital equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by completion &amp; production solutions and rig technologies in the amount of $1.1 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely impact completion of these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties: financial challenges for consumers of our capital equipment; 11 credit market conditions for consumers of our capital equipment; our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control; and, the imposition of tariffs or duties between countries, which could materially affect our global supply chain. the company existing contracts for rig and production equipment generally carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and the majority do not allow customers to cancel projects for convenience. however, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. competition in our industry, including the introduction of new products and technologies by our competitors, as well as the expiration of the intellectual property rights protecting our products and technologies, could ultimately lead to lower revenue and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following can each affect our revenue and earnings: price changes; improvements in the availability and delivery of products and services by our competitors; the introduction of new products and technologies by our competitors; and, the expiration of intellectual property rights protecting our products and technologies. we are a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes. if we are unable to maintain our technology leadership position, it could adversely affect our competitive advantage for certain products and services. our revenues and operating results have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through our internal development programs and acquisitions, we have assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights, some of which expire in the near future. the expiration of these rights could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. furthermore, while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenue from new products. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. actions taken by our competitors and changes in local policies, preferences or regulations could impact our ability to compete in certain markets and adversely affect our financial results. 12 a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the over 65 countries in which we operate. approximately 60% of our revenues in 2017 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in every oil producing region in the world. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including: uncertain political, social and economic environments; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war and other armed conflict; trade and economic sanctions and other restrictions imposed by the united states, european union or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) or similar legislation, as well as foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws; confiscatory taxation, tax duties, complex and everchanging tax regimes or other adverse tax policies; exposure to expropriation of our assets and other actions by foreign governments; deprivation of contract rights; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; inflation; and, currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. our failure to comply with complex u.s. and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. our ability to comply with various complex u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and other foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, as well as various trade control regulations, is dependent on the success of our ongoing compliance program, including our ability to continue to effectively supervise and train our employees to deter prohibited practices. these various laws and regulations can change frequently and significantly. we may become involved in governmental investigation even if the company has complied with these laws. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulation, we could be subject to investigations, sanctions and civil and criminal prosecution as well as fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, government disruptions could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. we are also required to comply with various complex u.s. and foreign tax laws, regulations and treaties. these laws, regulations and treaties can change frequently and significantly and it is reasonable to expect changes in the future. if we fail to comply with any of these tax laws, regulations or treaties, we could be subject to, among other things, civil and criminal prosecution, fines, penalties and confiscation of our assets, which could disrupt our ability to provide our products and services to our customers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, in some instances, direct or indirect consumers of our products and services, entities providing financing for purchases of our products and services or members of the supply chain for our products and services may become involved in governmental investigations, internal investigations, political or other enforcement matters. in such circumstances, such investigations may adversely impact the ability of consumers of our products, entities providing financial support to such consumers or entities in the supply chain to timely perform their business plans or to timely perform under agreements with us. the company could also become involved in investigations of consumers of our products at significant cost to the company. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. 13 our businesses expose us to potential environmental, product or personal injury liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment or a product could fail to perform or cause personal injury, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or, environmental damage and suspension of operations. our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other litigation and liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or, as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental, product or personal injury liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination or may exclude coverage for other reasons. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or, the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the adoption of climate change legislation, restrictions on emissions of greenhouse gases, or other environmental regulations could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. the u.s. congress and other governments routinely consider legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gasses and other climate change related legislation, which could require significant reductions in emissions from oil and gas related operations. additionally, recent concerns regarding the potential impact of hydraulic stimulation, or fracking , activities have resulted in government officials promulgating regulations to impose certain operational restrictions and disclosure requirements on oil and gas companies. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. 14 cybersecurity risks and threats could adversely affect our business. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger systems and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that any breach or interruption will be sufficiently limited. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of our intellectual property or other proprietary information, including customer data, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. local content requirements imposed in certain jurisdictions may increase the complexity of our operations and impact the demand for our services. a growing number of nations are requiring equipment providers and contractors to meet local content requirements or other local standards. to meet many of these local content and other requirements, we are required to attract and retain qualified local personnel. if we are unable to do so because the supply of qualified local personnel is constrained for any reason, the growth and profitability of our business may be adversely affected. in addition, our ability to work in certain jurisdictions is sometimes subject to our ability to successfully negotiate and agree upon acceptable joint venture agreements. the failure to reach acceptable agreements could adversely impact the company operations in certain countries. additionally, we may share control of joint ventures with unaffiliated third parties. differences in views, and disagreements, among joint venture parties may result in delayed decision making and disputes on important issues. in some instances, we could suffer a material adverse effect to the results of our joint ventures and our consolidated results of operations. our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel at competitive cost could materially affect our operations and growth potential. many of the products we sell, and related services that we provide, are complex and technologically advanced, which enable them to perform in challenging conditions. our ability to succeed is, in part, dependent on our success in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to provide service and to design, manufacture, use, install and commission our products. a significant increase in wages paid by competitors, both within and outside the energy industry, for such highly skilled personnel could result in insufficient availability of skilled labor or increase our labor costs, or both. if the supply of skilled labor is constrained or our costs increase, our margins could decrease and our growth potential could be impaired. severe weather conditions may adversely affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings. the company has approximately $6.2 billion of goodwill and $0.4 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2017. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances indicate they might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant sustained reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant sustained reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant sustained reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders equity; resulting in a possible increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. see additional discussion on goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets in critical accounting estimates of item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we have expanded our businesses through acquisitions and intend to maintain a growth strategy. we have expanded and grown our businesses through acquisitions and continue to pursue a growth strategy but we cannot assure that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. in addition, we cannot assure that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. 15 glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds ( pdcs ). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. borehole enlargement ( bhe ) the process of opening up or enlarging the internal diameter of the wellbore. this is typically done with under-reamers, reamers, or hole openers. bottomhole assembly ( bha ) the lower portion of the drillstring including (if used): the bit, bit sub, mud motor, stabilizers, drillcollar, heavy-weight drillpipe, jarring devices, and crossovers for various thread forms. closed loop drilling systems a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. 16 drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe a spoolable glass fiber-reinforced epoxy composite tubular product for onshore oil and gas gathering and injection systems, with superior corrosion resistant properties and lower installed cost than steel. flexible pipe a dynamic riser that connects subsea production equipment to a topside facility allowing for the flow of oil, gas, and/or water. also used on the seafloor to tie wells and subsea equipment together. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. fpso a floating production, storage and offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. hydraulic fracturing the process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1. in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four-or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table turns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four-or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 or 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. 17 kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. mooring system the method by which a vessel or buoy is fixed to a certain position, whether permanently or temporarily. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment equipment used in: 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser a pipe through which liquids travel upward. riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to establish a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor for drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. 18 shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. steerable technologies tools that allow for steering the bha towards a target while rotating from surface. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. tiebacks (subsea) a series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. 19 trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. turret mechanical device that allows a floating vessel to rotate around stationary flowlines, umbilicals, and other associated risers. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. wellhead the termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have extensive operations in foreign countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, the company reported foreign currency gains (losses) of ($3) million, $(10) million and $(47) million, respectively. gains and losses are primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency and adjustments to our hedged positions as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. strengthening of currencies against the u.s. dollar may create losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of our subsidiaries using the local currency as their functional currency. some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. similarly some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated u.s. dollar costs, which also give rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. the following table details the company foreign currency exchange risk grouped by functional currency and their expected maturity periods as of december 31, 2017 (in millions except for rates): december 31, 2017 december 31, functional currency 2018 2019 2020 total 2016 cad buy usd/sell cad: notional amount to buy (in canadian dollars) 40 35 75 75 average usd to cad contract rate 1.3286 1.3242 1.3265 1.3265 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars (2 ) (1 ) (3 ) sell usd/buy cad: notional amount to sell (in canadian dollars) 51 24 141 216 260 average usd to cad contract rate 1.2842 1.3167 1.3147 1.3075 1.3120 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars 1 1 5 7 (2 ) eur buy usd/sell eur: notional amount to buy (in euros) 10 10 3 average usd to eur contract rate 0.8565 0.8565 0.9309 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy eur: notional amount to sell (in euros) 105 105 104 average usd to eur contract rate 0.8429 0.8429 0.9206 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars 2 2 (3 ) sell zar/buy eur: notional amount to sell (in euros) 9 9 8 average zar to eur contract rate 0.0619 0.0619 0.0555 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars (2 ) krw sell usd/buy krw: notional amount to buy (in south korean won) 40,674 average usd to krw contract rate 1,162 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars (1 ) aud buy usd/sell aud: notional amount to buy (in australian dollars) 2 2 average usd to aud contract rate 1 1.3152 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy aud: notional amount to sell (in australian dollars) 5 5 average usd to aud contract rate 1.3324 1.3324 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars 44 december 31, 2017 december 31, functional currency 2018 2019 2020 total 2016 gbp buy usd/sell gbp: notional amount to buy (in british pounds sterling) 1 average usd to gbp contract rate 0.7855 0.7855 0.8028 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy gbp: notional amount to sell (in british pounds sterling) 156 156 169 average usd to gbp contract rate 1 0.7438 0.7844 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars 1 1 (6 ) sell eur/buy gbp: notional amount to sell (in british pounds sterling) 1 average eur to gbp contract rate 0.8604 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars usd buy cad/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 1 average cad to usd contract rate 0.7559 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars buy dkk/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 5 5 10 average dkk to usd contract rate 0.1602 0.1483 0.1509 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars (1 ) buy eur/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 58 58 81 average eur to usd contract rate 1.1604 1.1604 1.1114 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars 2 2 (4 ) buy gbp/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 4 4 3 average gbp to usd contract rate 1.2934 1.2934 1.2516 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars buy nok/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 426 189 615 737 average nok to usd contract rate 0.1204 0.1214 0.1207 0.1231 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars 7 4 11 (41 ) buy sgd/sell usd: notional amount to buy (in u.s. dollars) 5 average sgd to usd contract rate 0.7262 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars sell dkk/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 2 2 2 average dkk to usd contract rate 0.1606 0.1606 0.1481 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars sell eur/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 86 86 29 average eur to usd contract rate 1.1755 1.1755 1.1059 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars (2 ) (2 ) 1 sell gbp/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 1 1 1 average gbp to usd contract rate 1.3340 1.3340 1.2549 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars sell nok/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 81 81 21 average nok to usd contract rate 0.1260 0.1260 0.1183 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars 2 2 sell rub/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 45 45 30 average rub to usd contract rate 0.0167 0.0167 0.0158 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) sell sgd/buy usd: notional amount to sell (in u.s. dollars) 2 average sgd to usd contract rate 0.7006 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy brl: notional amount to sell (in brazilian real) 23 23 23 average usd to brl contract rate 3.6378 3.6378 3.6378 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars 45 december 31, 2017 december 31, functional currency 2018 2019 2020 total 2016 brl buy eur/sell brl: notional amount to buy (in brazilian reals) 138 138 326 average eur to brl contract rate 3.8793 3.8793 4.1974 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars 2 2 (13 ) buy gbp/sell brl: notional amount to buy (in brazilian reals) 38 38 average gbp to brl contract rate 4.3752 4.3752 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars 1 1 buy usd/sell brl: notional amount to buy (in brazilian reals) 43 43 27 average usd to brl contract rate 3.2805 3.2805 4.0278 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars (1 ) sell eur/buy brl: notional amount to sell (in brazilian reals) 125 125 1,440 average eur to brl contract rate 3.9985 3.9985 4.2950 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars (1 ) (1 ) 59 dkk buy usd/sell dkk: notional amount to buy (in danish krone) 22 average usd to dkk contract rate 7.1140 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy dkk: notional amount to sell (in danish krone) 219 219 855 average usd to dkk contract rate 6.3500 6.3500 6.9660 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars 1 1 (1 ) nok buy eur/sell nok: notional amount to buy (in norwegian kroner) 109 5 114 231 average eur to nok contract rate 9.8244 9.8860 9.8269 9.1870 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars buy gbp/sell nok: notional amount to buy (in norwegian kroner) 9 9 18 2 average gbp to nok contract rate 11.0466 11.0470 11.0468 10.7029 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars buy usd/sell nok: notional amount to buy (in norwegian kroner) 8 8 21 average usd to nok contract rate 8.3188 8.3188 8.7062 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars buy jpy/sell nok: notional amount to buy (in norwegian kroner) 40 40 58 average jpy to nok contract rate 0.0740 0.0740 0.0748 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars sell eur/buy nok: notional amount to sell (in norwegian kroner) 140 12 152 120 average eur to nok contract rate 9.7736 9.8952 9.7832 9.2144 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars sell usd/buy nok: notional amount to sell (in norwegian kroner) 44 44 126 average usd to nok contract rate 8.3339 8.3339 8.7030 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars sell jpy/buy nok: notional amount to sell (in norwegian kroner) 33 33 51 average jpy to nok contract rate 0.0743 0.0743 0.0750 fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars total fair value at december 31, 2017 in u.s. dollars 13 4 5 22 (15 ) 46 the company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies for transactional exposures totaling $55 million and translation exposures totaling $193 million as of december 31, 2017, excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on the transactional exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect net income by $4 million and the translational exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect the future fair value by $19 million. the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. historically, the venezuelan government has devalued the country currency. during the first quarter of 2015, the venezuelan government officially devalued the venezuelan bolivar against the u.s. dollar. as a result, the company incurred approximately $9 million in devaluation charges in the first quarter of 2015. the reporting currency of all of the company venezuelan entities is the u.s. dollar. the company remaining net investment in venezuela, which is largely u.s. dollar, was nil at december 31, 2017. during the fourth quarter of 2015, the argentinian government officially devalued the argentine peso against the u.s. dollar. as a result, the company incurred approximately $7 million of devaluation charges in the fourth quarter of 2015. the reporting currency of all of the company argentinian entities is the argentine peso. interest rate risk at december 31, 2017, long term borrowings consisted of $1,392 million in 2.60% senior notes and $1,088 million in 3.95% senior notes, no commercial paper borrowings and no borrowings against our revolving credit facility. occasionally a portion of borrowings under our credit facility could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either libor, nibor or cdor, or at the u.s. prime rate. under our credit facility, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or cdor for 30 days to six months. our objective is to maintain a portion of our debt in variable rate borrowings for the flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without penalties and lower overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings. 47risk factors and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. seasonal nature of the company's business historically, activity levels of some of the company's segments have followed seasonal trends to some degree. extremely harsh winter weather can reduce oilfield operations in far northern or high-altitude locations, including parts of colorado, canada, russia and china, and the annual thaw (or breakup ) in canada makes some unimproved roads inaccessible to heavy equipment during part of each second quarter. both situations temporarily reduce demand for the company's products and services in the effected geographic area, although revenues generally recover once conditions improve. fluctuations in customer's activity levels caused by national or customary holiday seasons and annual budgetary cycles can also affect their spending levels with the company, leading to both temporary local decreases and increases in sales. the company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue, however, there can be no guarantee that spending by the company's customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past. 10 research and new product development and intellectual property the company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trademarks, for both goods and services, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights. as of december 31, 2018, the company held a substantial number of granted patents and pending patent applications worldwide, including us patents and us patent applications as well as patents and patent applications in a variety of other countries. expiration dates of such patents range from 2020 to 2039. additionally, the company maintains a substantial number of trademarks for both goods and services and maintains a number of trade secrets. although the company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. the company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers, and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenue from new products. manufacturing and service locations the manufacturing processes for the company's products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components, and testing. most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel. the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components, and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. wellbore technologies designs, manufactures, rents, and sells a variety of equipment and technologies used to perform drilling operations, and offers services that optimize their performance, including: solids control and waste management equipment and services, drilling fluids, premium drillpipe, wired pipe, drilling optimization services, tubular inspection and coating services, instrumentation, downhole tools, and drill bits. primary facilities are located in houston, conroe, navasota, and cedar park, texas; veracruz, mexico; and dubai, uae. completion &amp; production solutions integrates technologies for well completions and oil and gas production. the segment designs, manufactures, and sells equipment and technologies needed for hydraulic fracture stimulation, including pressure pumping trucks, blenders, sanders, hydration units, injection units, flowline, and manifolds; well intervention, including coiled tubing units, coiled tubing, and wireline units and tools; cementing products for pumping, mixing, transport, and storage; onshore production, including fluid processing, composite pipe, surface transfer and progressive cavity pumps, and artificial lift systems; and offshore production, including floating production systems and subsea production technologies. primary facilities are located in houston, and fort worth, texas; tulsa, oklahoma; senai, malaysia; qingdau, shandong, china; kalundborg, denmark; superporto du acu, brazil; manchester, england; and aberdeenshire, scotland, uk. rig technologies provides drilling rig components, complete land drilling rigs, and offshore drilling equipment packages. primary manufacturing facilities are located in houston, texas; orange, california; new iberia, louisiana; singapore; and dubai, uae. raw materials the company believes that materials and components used in its operations are generally available from multiple sources. the prices paid by the company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel, and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. the company has experienced rising, declining, and stable prices for milled steel and standard grades in line with broader economic activity and has generally seen specialty alloy prices continue to rise, driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. the company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to, and adjusting prices on, the products it sells. 11 higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. backlog the company monitors its backlog of orders within its completion &amp; production solutions and rig technologies segments to guide its planning. backlog includes orders which typically require more than three months to manufacture and deliver. backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders that are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. most require reimbursement to the company for costs incurred in such an event. there can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the company will earn a profit on backlog work. backlog for completion &amp; production solutions at december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 was $0.9 billion, $1.1 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively. backlog for rig technologies at december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, was $3.1 billion, $1.9 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively. employees at december 31, 2018, the company had a total of 35,063 employees, of which 843 were temporary employees and 294 were subject to collective bargaining agreements in the u.s. additionally, certain employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. based upon the geographical diversification of these employees, we do not believe any risk of loss from employee strikes or other collective actions would be material to the conduct of our operations taken as a whole. available information the company's principal executive offices are located at 7909 parkwood circle drive, houston, texas 77036. its telephone number is (713) 346-7500. further information about the company's products and services can be found on its website at: http://www.nov.com. the company's common stock is traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol nov . the company's annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all related amendments are available free of charge on the investor relations portion of the company's website, www.nov.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the company's code of ethics is also posted on its website. item 1a.risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile and has caused, and may cause future, fluctuations in our operating results. the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our products and services depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including the: current and anticipated future prices for oil and natural gas; volatility of prices for oil and natural gas; 12 ability or willingness of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other countries, such as russia, to maintain or influence price stability through voluntary production limits; sanctions and other restrictions placed on certain oil producing countries, such as russia, iran, and venezuela; level of production by non-opec countries including production from u.s. shale plays; level of excess production capacity; cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas; level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates; worldwide economic activity and associated demand for oil and gas; availability and access to potential hydrocarbon resources; national government political requirements; fluctuations in political conditions in the united states and abroad; currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations; development of alternate energy sources; and, environmental regulations. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, and other service companies, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may remain below a range that is acceptable to certain of our customers, which could continue the reduced demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. there are risks associated with certain contracts for our equipment. as of december 31, 2018, we had a backlog of capital equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by completion &amp; production solutions and rig technologies in the amount of $0.9 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely impact completion of these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties: financial challenges for consumers of our capital equipment; credit market conditions for consumers of our capital equipment; our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this equipment; our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements; our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process; our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes; unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control; and, the imposition of tariffs or duties between countries, which could materially affect our global supply chain. for example, section 232 tariffs on steel may increase our costs, reduce margins or otherwise adversely affect the company. 13 the company's existi ng contracts for rig and production equipment generally carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and the majority do not allow customers to cancel projects for convenience. however, un favorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and fina ncial condition. competition in our industry, including the introduction of new products and technologies by our competitors, as well as the expiration of the intellectual property rights protecting our products and technologies, could ultimately lead to lower revenue and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following can each affect our revenue and earnings: price changes; improvements in the availability and delivery of products and services by our competitors; the introduction of new products and technologies by our competitors; and, the expiration of intellectual property rights protecting our products and technologies. we are a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes. if we are unable to maintain our technology leadership position, it could adversely affect our competitive advantage for certain products and services. our revenues and operating results have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through our internal development programs and acquisitions, we have assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights, some of which expire in the near future. the expiration of these rights could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. furthermore, while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenue from new products. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. actions taken by our competitors and changes in local policies, preferences or regulations could impact our ability to compete in certain markets and adversely affect our financial results. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the over 65 countries in which we operate. approximately 60% of our revenues in 2018 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in every oil producing region in the world. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including: uncertain political, social and economic environments; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war and other armed conflict; 14 trade and economic sanctions and other restrictions imposed by the united states, european union or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) or similar legislation, as well as foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws; confiscatory taxation, tax duties, complex and everchanging tax regimes or other adverse tax policies; exposure to expropriation of our assets and other actions by foreign governments; deprivation of contract rights; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; inflation; and, currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. our failure to comply with complex u.s. and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. our ability to comply with various complex u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and other foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, as well as various trade control regulations, is dependent on the success of our ongoing compliance program, including our ability to continue to effectively supervise and train our employees to deter prohibited practices. these various laws and regulations can change frequently and significantly. we may become involved in a governmental investigation even if the company has complied with these laws. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulation, we could be subject to investigations, sanctions and civil and criminal prosecution as well as fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, government disruptions could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. we are also required to comply with various complex u.s. and foreign tax laws, regulations and treaties. these laws, regulations and treaties can change frequently and significantly and it is reasonable to expect changes in the future. if we fail to comply with any of these tax laws, regulations or treaties, we could be subject to, among other things, civil and criminal prosecution, fines, penalties and confiscation of our assets, which could disrupt our ability to provide our products and services to our customers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, in some instances, direct or indirect consumers of our products and services, entities providing financing for purchases of our products and services or members of the supply chain for our products and services may become involved in governmental investigations, internal investigations, political or other enforcement matters. in such circumstances, such investigations may adversely impact the ability of consumers of our products, entities providing financial support to such consumers or entities in the supply chain to timely perform their business plans or to timely perform under agreements with us. the company could also become involved in investigations of consumers of our products at significant cost to the company. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. 15 our businesses expose us to potential environmental, produ ct or personal injury liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment or a product could fail to perform or cause personal injury, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or, environmental damage and suspension of operations. our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other litigation and liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence; strict liability; breach of contract with customers; or, as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental, product or personal injury liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination or may exclude coverage for other reasons. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or, the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the adoption of climate change legislation, restrictions on emissions of greenhouse gases, or other environmental regulations could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. the u.s. congress and other governments routinely consider legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gasses and other climate change related legislation, which could require significant reductions in emissions from oil and gas related operations. additionally, recent concerns regarding the potential impact of hydraulic stimulation, or fracking , activities have resulted in government officials promulgating regulations to impose certain operational restrictions and disclosure requirements on oil and gas companies. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. cybersecurity risks and threats could adversely affect our business. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger systems and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that any breach or interruption will be sufficiently 16 limited. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of our intellectual property or other proprietary information, including customer data, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. local content requirements imposed in certain jurisdictions may increase the complexity of our operations and impact the demand for our services. a growing number of nations are requiring equipment providers and contractors to meet local content requirements or other local standards. to meet many of these local content and other requirements, we are required to attract and retain qualified local personnel. if we are unable to do so because the supply of qualified local personnel is constrained for any reason, the growth and profitability of our business may be adversely affected. in addition, our ability to work in certain jurisdictions is sometimes subject to our ability to successfully negotiate and agree upon acceptable joint venture agreements. the failure to reach acceptable agreements could adversely impact the company's operations in certain countries. additionally, we may share control of joint ventures with unaffiliated third parties. differences in views, and disagreements, among joint venture parties may result in delayed decision making and disputes on important issues. in some instances, we could suffer a material adverse effect to the results of our joint ventures and our consolidated results of operations. our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel at competitive cost could materially affect our operations and growth potential. many of the products we sell, and related services that we provide, are complex and technologically advanced, which enable them to perform in challenging conditions. our ability to succeed is, in part, dependent on our success in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to provide service and to design, manufacture, use, install and commission our products. a significant increase in wages paid by competitors, both within and outside the energy industry, for such highly skilled personnel could result in insufficient availability of skilled labor or increase our labor costs, or both. if the supply of skilled labor is constrained or our costs increase, our margins could decrease and our growth potential could be impaired. severe weather conditions may adversely affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings. the company has approximately $6.3 billion of goodwill and $0.4 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2018. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances indicate they might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant sustained reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant sustained reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant sustained reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders' equity; resulting in a possible increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. see additional discussion on goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets in critical accounting estimates of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 17 we have expanded and grown our businesses through acquisitions and continue to pursue a growth strategy but we cannot assure that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. we cannot assure that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management; a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds ( pdcs ). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. borehole enlargement ( bhe ) the process of opening up or enlarging the internal diameter of the wellbore. this is typically done with under-reamers, reamers, or hole openers. 18 bottomhole assembly ( bha ) closed loop drilling systems the lower portion of the drillstring including (if used): the bit, bit sub, mud motor, stabilizers, drillcollar, heavy-weight drillpipe, jarring devices, and crossovers for various thread forms. a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water's surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe a spoolable glass fiber-reinforced epoxy composite tubular product for onshore oil and gas gathering and injection systems, with superior corrosion resistant properties and lower installed cost than steel. flexible pipe a dynamic riser that connects subsea production equipment to a topside facility allowing for the flow of oil, gas, and/or water. also used on the seafloor to tie wells and subsea equipment together. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. 19 fpso a floating production, storage and offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. hydraulic fracturing the process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1. in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four-or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table turns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four-or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 or 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). 20 manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. mooring system the method by which a vessel or buoy is fixed to a certain position, whether permanently or temporarily. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment equipment used in: 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to establish a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor for drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. 21 safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit's drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. steerable technologies tools that allow for steering the bha towards a target while rotating from surface. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. tiebacks (subsea) a series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. 22 torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. turret mechanical device that allows a floating vessel to rotate around stationary flowlines, umbilicals, and other associated risers. well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. wellhead the termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have extensive operations in foreign countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the company reported foreign currency losses of $52 million, $3 million and $10 million, respectively. gains and losses are primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency and adjustments to our hedged positions as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. currency fluctuations may create losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of our subsidiaries using the local currency as their functional currency. some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. similarly, some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated u.s. dollar costs, which also give rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. the company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies for transactional exposures totaling $24 million and translation exposures totaling $157 million as of december 31, 2018, excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on the transactional exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect net income by $2 million and the translational exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect the future fair value by $16 million. the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. interest rate risk at december 31, 2018, long term borrowings consisted of $1,394 million in 2.60% senior notes and $1,088 million in 3.95% senior notes, no commercial paper borrowings and no borrowings against our revolving credit facility. occasionally a portion of borrowings under our credit facility could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either libor, nibor or cdor, or at the u.s. prime rate. under our credit facility, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or cdor for 30 days to six months. our objective is to maintain a portion of our debt in variable rate borrowings for the flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without penalties and lower overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings.risk factors and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 10 seasonal nature of the company's business historically, activity levels of some of the company's segments have followed seasonal trends to some degree. extremely harsh winter weather can reduce oilfield operations in far northern or high-altitude locations, including parts of colorado, canada, russia and china, and the annual thaw (or breakup ) in canada makes some unimproved roads inaccessible to heavy equipment during part of each second quarter. both situations temporarily reduce demand for the company's products and services in the effected geographic area, although revenues generally recover once conditions improve. fluctuations in customer's activity levels caused by national or customary holiday seasons and annual budgetary cycles can also affect their spending levels with the company, leading to both temporary local decreases and increases in sales. over the past few years, the company has seen a more pronounced level of spending during the fourth quarter, and a decline in the first quarter, in certain of its businesses, which it believes is related to annual budgetary cycles. while the company anticipates that the seasonal and other trends described above may continue, there can be no guarantee that spending by the company's customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past. research and new product development and intellectual property the company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. it also invests in new technologies related to its non-oil and gas business as well as renewable energy-related technologies. through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trademarks, for both goods and services, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights. as of december 31, 2019, the company held a substantial number of granted patents and pending patent applications worldwide, including u.s. patents and u.s. patent applications as well as patents and patent applications in a variety of other countries. expiration dates of such patents range from 2020 to 2035. additionally, the company maintains a substantial number of trademarks for both goods and services and maintains a number of trade secrets. although the company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. the company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers, and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenue from new products. manufacturing and service locations the manufacturing processes for the company's products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components, and testing. most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel. the availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components, and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments. wellbore technologies designs, manufactures, rents, and sells a variety of equipment and technologies used to perform drilling operations, and offers services that optimize their performance, including: solids control and waste management equipment and services, drilling fluids, premium drillpipe, wired pipe, drilling optimization services, tubular inspection and coating services, instrumentation, downhole tools, and drill bits. primary facilities are located in houston, conroe, navasota, and cedar park, texas veracruz, mexico and dubai, uae. completion production solutions integrates technologies for well completions and oil and gas production. the segment designs, manufactures, and sells equipment and technologies needed for hydraulic fracture stimulation, including pressure pumping trucks, blenders, sanders, hydration units, injection units, flowline, and manifolds well intervention, including coiled tubing units, coiled tubing, and wireline units and tools cementing products for pumping, mixing, transport, and storage onshore production, including fluid processing, composite pipe, surface transfer and progressive cavity pumps, and artificial lift systems and offshore production, including floating production systems and subsea production technologies. primary facilities are located in houston, and fort worth, texas tulsa, oklahoma senai, malaysia qingdau, shandong, china kalundborg, denmark superporto du acu, brazil manchester, england and aberdeenshire, scotland, uk. 11 rig technologies provides drilling rig components, complete land drilling rigs, and offshore drilling equipment packages. primary manufacturing facilities are located in houston, texas orange, california new iberia, louisiana singapore and dubai, uae. raw materials the company believes that materials and components used in its operations are generally available from multiple sources. the prices paid by the company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel, and other commodity prices tariffs and duties on imported materials and foreign currency exchange rates. the company has experienced rising, declining, and stable prices for milled steel and standard grades in line with broader economic activity and has generally seen specialty alloy prices continue to rise, driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. the company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to, and adjusting prices on, the products it sells. higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. backlog the company monitors its backlog of orders within its completion production solutions and rig technologies segments to guide its planning. backlog includes orders which typically require more than three months to manufacture and deliver. backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders that are firm but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. most require reimbursement to the company for costs incurred in such an event. there can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the company will earn a profit on backlog work. backlog for completion production solutions at december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 was $1.3 billion, $0.9 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. backlog for rig technologies at december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, was $3.0 billion, $3.1 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively. employees at december 31, 2019, the company had a total of 35,479 employees, of which 1,669 were temporary employees and 500 were subject to collective bargaining agreements in the u.s. additionally, certain employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. based upon the geographical diversification of these employees, we do not believe any risk of loss from employee strikes or other collective actions would be material to the conduct of our operations taken as a whole. available information the company's principal executive offices are located at 7909 parkwood circle drive, houston, texas 77036. its telephone number is (713) 346-7500. further information about the company's products and services can be found on its website at: http://www.nov.com. the company's common stock is traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol nov . the company's annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all related amendments are available free of charge on the investor relations portion of the company's website, www.nov.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the company's code of ethics is also posted on its website. 12 item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile and has caused, and may cause future, fluctuations in our operating results. the oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. demand for our products and services depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period, particularly in the united states and canada. the willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including the: current and anticipated future prices for oil and natural gas volatility of prices for oil and natural gas ability or willingness of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other countries, such as russia, to maintain or influence price stability through voluntary production limits sanctions and other restrictions placed on certain oil producing countries, such as russia, iran, and venezuela level of production by non-opec countries including production from u.s. shale plays level of excess production capacity cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates worldwide economic activity and associated demand for oil and gas public health crises and other catastrophic events, such as the coronavirus outbreak at the beginning of 2020 availability and access to potential hydrocarbon resources national government political requirements fluctuations in political conditions in the united states and abroad currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations development of alternate energy sources and, environmental regulations. expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, and other service companies, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, may remain below a range that is acceptable to certain of our customers, which could continue the reduced demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 there are risks associated with certain contracts for our equipment. as of december 31, 2019, we had a backlog of capital equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by completion production solutions and rig technologies in the amount of $1.3 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. the following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely impact completion of these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties: financial challenges for consumers of our capital equipment credit market conditions for consumers of our capital equipment our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this equipment our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control and, the imposition of tariffs or duties between countries, which could materially affect our global supply chain. for example, section 232 tariffs on steel may increase our costs, reduce margins or otherwise adversely affect the company. the company's existing contracts for rig and production equipment generally carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and the majority do not allow customers to cancel projects for convenience. however, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. competition in our industry, including the introduction of new products and technologies by our competitors, as well as the expiration of the intellectual property rights protecting our products and technologies, could ultimately lead to lower revenue and earnings. the oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. we compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. the following can each affect our revenue and earnings: price changes improvements in the availability and delivery of products and services by our competitors the introduction of new products and technologies by our competitors and, the expiration of intellectual property rights protecting our products and technologies. we are a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes. if we are unable to maintain our technology leadership position, it could adversely affect our competitive advantage for certain products and services. our revenues and operating results have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. through our internal development programs and acquisitions, we have assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights, some of which expire in the near future. the expiration of these rights could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. furthermore, while the company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the company will realize future revenue from new products. 14 the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. actions taken by our competitors and changes in local policies, preferences or regulations could impact our ability to compete in certain markets and adversely affect our financial results. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the 63 countries in which we operate. approximately 63% of our revenues in 2019 were derived from operations outside the united states (based on revenue destination). our foreign operations include significant operations in every oil producing region in the world. our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including: uncertain political, social and economic environments social unrest, acts of terrorism, war and other armed conflict public health crises and other catastrophic events, such as the coronavirus outbreak at the beginning of 2020 trade and economic sanctions and other restrictions imposed by the united states, european union or other countries restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) or similar legislation, as well as foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws confiscatory taxation, tax duties, complex and everchanging tax regimes or other adverse tax policies exposure to expropriation of our assets and other actions by foreign governments deprivation of contract rights restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital inflation and, currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. our failure to comply with complex u.s. and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. our ability to comply with various complex u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and other foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, as well as various trade control regulations, is dependent on the success of our ongoing compliance program, including our ability to continue to effectively supervise and train our employees to deter prohibited practices. these various laws and regulations can change frequently and significantly. we may become involved in a governmental investigation even if the company has complied with these laws. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulation, we could be subject to investigations, sanctions and civil and criminal prosecution as well as fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, government disruptions could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. 15 we are also required to comply with various complex u.s. and foreign tax laws, regulations and treaties. these laws, regulations and treaties can change frequently and significantly and it is reasonable to expect changes in the future. if we fail to comply with any of these tax laws, regulations or treaties, we could be subject to, among other things, civil and criminal prosecution, fines, penalties and confiscation of our assets, which could disrupt our ability to provide our products and services to our customers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, in some instances, direct or indirect consumers of our products and services, entities providing financing for purchases of our products and services or members of the supply chain for our products and services may become involved in governmental investigations, internal investigations, political or other enforcement matters. in such circumstances, such investigations may adversely impact the ability of consumers of our products, entities providing financial support to such consumers or entities in the supply chain to timely perform their business plans or to timely perform under agreements with us. the company could also become involved in investigations of consumers of our products at significant cost to the company. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. these laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. if existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our businesses expose us to potential environmental, product or personal injury liability. our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment or a product could fail to perform or cause personal injury, which could result in: personal injury or loss of life severe damage to or destruction of property or, environmental damage and suspension of operations. our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other litigation and liabilities. these could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. these liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: negligence strict liability breach of contract with customers or, as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case. 16 we may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental, product or personal injury liabilities. while we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. in addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination or may exclude coverage for other reasons. we face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies or, the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the adoption of climate change legislation, restrictions on emissions of greenhouse gases, or other environmental regulations could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. the u.s. congress and other governments routinely consider legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and other climate change related legislation, which could require significant reductions in emissions from oil and gas related operations. additionally, recent concerns regarding the potential impact of hydraulic stimulation, or fracking , activities have resulted in government officials promulgating regulations to impose certain operational restrictions and disclosure requirements on oil and gas companies. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. cybersecurity risks and threats could adversely affect our business. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger systems and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that any breach or interruption will be sufficiently limited. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of our intellectual property or other proprietary information, including customer data, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. local content requirements imposed in certain jurisdictions may increase the complexity of our operations and impact the demand for our services. a growing number of nations are requiring equipment providers and contractors to meet local content requirements or other local standards. to meet many of these local content and other requirements, we are required to attract and retain qualified local personnel. if we are unable to do so because the supply of qualified local personnel is constrained for any reason, the growth and profitability of our business may be adversely affected. in addition, our ability to work in certain jurisdictions is sometimes subject to our ability to successfully negotiate and agree upon acceptable joint venture agreements. the failure to reach acceptable agreements could adversely impact the company's operations in certain countries. additionally, we may share control of joint ventures with unaffiliated third parties. differences in views, and disagreements, among joint venture parties may result in delayed decision making and disputes on important issues. in some instances, we could suffer a material adverse effect to the results of our joint ventures and our consolidated results of operations. 17 our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel at competitive cost could materially affect our operations and growth potential. many of the products we sell, and related services that we provide, are complex and technologically advanced, which enable them to perform in challenging conditions. our ability to succeed is, in part, dependent on our success in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to provide service and to design, manufacture, use, install and commission our products. a significant increase in wages paid by competitors, both within and outside the energy industry, for such highly skilled personnel could result in insufficient availability of skilled labor or increase our labor costs, or both. if the supply of skilled labor is constrained or our costs increase, our margins could decrease and our growth potential could be impaired. severe weather conditions may adversely affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings. the company has approximately $2.8 billion of goodwill and $0.3 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of december 31, 2019. generally accepted accounting principles require the company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances indicate they might be impaired. events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant sustained reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling a significant sustained reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors a significant sustained reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. the timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgement. if we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders' equity resulting in a possible increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. see additional discussion on goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets in critical accounting estimates of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we have expanded and grown our businesses through acquisitions and continue to pursue a growth strategy but we cannot assure that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. we cannot assure that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively any new lines of business. any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. in addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the company, any of which could cause our business to suffer. 18 glossary of oilfield terms (sources: company management a dictionary for the petroleum industry, the university of texas at austin, 2001.) api abbr: american petroleum institute annular blowout preventer a large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. annulus the open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass. automatic pipe handling systems (automatic pipe racker) a device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. it replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. automatic roughneck a large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. the device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. beam pump surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. bit the cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. the bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. the cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds ( pdcs ). these teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. the circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. in rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. blowout an uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. a blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. a kick warns of an impending blowout. blowout preventer (bop) series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. blowout preventer (bop) stack the assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. borehole enlargement ( bhe ) the process of opening up or enlarging the internal diameter of the wellbore. this is typically done with under-reamers, reamers, or hole openers. bottomhole assembly ( bha ) closed loop drilling systems the lower portion of the drillstring including (if used): the bit, bit sub, mud motor, stabilizers, drillcollar, heavy-weight drillpipe, jarring devices, and crossovers for various thread forms. a solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. 19 coiled tubing a continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. the reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. also called reeled tubing. cuttings fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. directional well well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. drawworks the hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. it is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit. drill pipe elevator (elevator) on conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. drilling jars a percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. drilling mud a specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. drilling riser a conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water's surface to the sea floor. drill stem all members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe a spoolable glass fiber-reinforced epoxy composite tubular product for onshore oil and gas gathering and injection systems, with superior corrosion resistant properties and lower installed cost than steel. flexible pipe a dynamic riser that connects subsea production equipment to a topside facility allowing for the flow of oil, gas, and/or water. also used on the seafloor to tie wells and subsea equipment together. formation a bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock often a lithologic unit. each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. fpso a floating production, storage and offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline. hardbanding a special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. 20 hydraulic fracturing the process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons. iron roughneck a floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. the iron roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. jack-up rig a mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. when positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. jar a mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. joint 1. in drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. in pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. in sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. kelly the heavy steel tubular device, four-or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table turns. it has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. kellys manufactured to api specifications are available only in four-or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 or 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). kelly bushing a special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. the kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. the bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. in either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. also called the drive bushing. kelly spinner a pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. it is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. kick an entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. it occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. if prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. making-up 1. to assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. to screw together two threaded pieces. 3. to mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. to compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). manual tongs (tongs) the large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. 21 master bushing a device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. also called rotary bushing. mooring system the method by which a vessel or buoy is fixed to a certain position, whether permanently or temporarily. motion compensation equipment any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. mud pump a large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. plug gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. pressure control equipment equipment used in: 1. the act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. the act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. pressure pumping pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. ram blowout preventer a blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. also called a ram preventer. ring gauging the mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with api standards. riser pipe the pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to establish a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. a riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor for drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. the riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. rotary table the principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. the master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning. rotating blowout preventer (rotating head) a sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. a rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming the head prevents the well from blowing out. it is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. the rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. safety clamps a clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. also called drill collar clamp. shale shaker a piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. the size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. also called a shaker. 22 slim-hole completions (slim-hole drilling) drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. this decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. slips wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit's drive shaft. rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. solids see cuttings spinning wrench air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. spinning-in the rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. spinning-out refers to separating the pipe. stand the connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. on a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. steerable technologies tools that allow for steering the bha towards a target while rotating from surface. string the entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. sucker rod a special steel pumping rod. several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. tensioner a system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. the guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. thermal desorption the process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. tiebacks (subsea) a series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point. top drive a device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. it also includes power tongs. modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. torque wrench spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection. trouble cost costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. these costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. turret mechanical device that allows a floating vessel to rotate around stationary flowlines, umbilicals, and other associated risers. 23 well completion 1. the activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. the system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. wellhead the termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments. well stimulation any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. well workover the performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. wellbore a borehole the hole drilled by the bit. a wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased) or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. also called a borehole or hole. wireline a slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. also called slick line. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. additional information concerning each of these matters follows: foreign currency exchange rates we have extensive operations in foreign countries. the net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. these operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that impact income. during the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, the company reported foreign currency losses of $36 million, $52 million and $3 million, respectively. gains and losses are primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency and adjustments to our hedged positions as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. currency fluctuations may create losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of our subsidiaries using the local currency as their functional currency. some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in u.s. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those u.s. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. similarly, some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated u.s. dollar costs, which also give rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. in order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. the company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies for transactional exposures totaling $85 million and translation exposures totaling $144 million as of december 31, 2019, excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. these market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. the company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on the transactional exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect net income by $7 million and the translational exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect the future fair value by $14 million. the counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. the credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. in the event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. 44 interest rate risk at december 31, 2019, long term borrowings consisted of $1,088 million in 3.95% senior notes, $492 million in 3.60% senior notes and $399 million in 2.60% senior notes, no commercial paper borrowings and no borrowings against our revolving credit facility. occasionally a portion of borrowings under our credit facility could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. these instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either libor, nibor or cdor, or at the u.s. prime rate. under our credit facility, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over libor, nibor or cdor for 30 days to six months. our objective is to maintain a portion of our debt in variable rate borrowings for the flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without penalties and lower overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings.