risk factors 10 and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks in item 7. investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance. part i item 1. business. pepsico, inc. was incorporated in delaware in 1919 and was reincorporated in north carolina in 1986. when used in this report, the terms we, us, our, pepsico and the company mean pepsico, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. we are a leading global food and beverage company with brands that are respected household names throughout the world. through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third parties, we make, market, sell and distribute a wide variety of convenient and enjoyable foods and beverages, serving customers and consumers in more than 200 countries and territories. our management monitors a variety of key indicators to evaluate our business results and financial condition. these indicators include growth in volume, revenue and organic revenue, growth in operating profit and eps (as reported and excluding certain items and the impact of foreign exchange translation), market share, safety, product and service quality, organizational health, brand equity, employee diversity, net commodity inflation, productivity savings, net capital spending, free cash flow and free cash flow excluding certain items, cash returned to shareholders in the forms of share repurchases and dividends, advertising and marketing expenses, return on invested capital (roic), and gross and operating margin change. performance with purpose is our goal to deliver sustained value by providing a wide range of foods and beverages, from treats to healthy eats; finding innovative ways to minimize our impact on the environment and lower our costs through energy and water conservation as well as reduce use of packaging material; providing a safe and inclusive workplace for our employees globally; and respecting, supporting and investing in the local communities in which we operate. pepsico was again recognized for its leadership in this area in 2013 by earning a place on the prestigious dow jones sustainability world index for the seventh consecutive year and on the north america index for the eighth consecutive year. 2 table of contents our operations we are organized into four business units, as follows: 1) pepsico americas foods, which includes frito-lay north america (flna), quaker foods north america (qfna) and all of our latin american food and snack businesses (laf); 2) pepsico americas beverages (pab), which includes all of our north american and latin american beverage businesses; 3) pepsico europe (europe), which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in europe and south africa; and 4) pepsico asia, middle east and africa (amea), which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in amea, excluding south africa. our four business units are comprised of six reportable segments (also referred to as divisions), as follows: flna, qfna, laf, pab, europe, and amea. see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and geographic areas. frito-lay north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, flna makes, markets, sells and distributes branded snack foods. these foods include lay's potato chips, doritos tortilla chips, cheetos cheese flavored snacks, tostitos tortilla chips, branded dips, ruffles potato chips, fritos corn chips and santitas tortilla chips. flna's branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. in addition, flna's joint venture with strauss group makes, markets, sells and distributes sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. flna's net revenue was $ 14.1 billion , $ 13.6 billion and $ 13.3 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and approximated 21% of our total net revenue in both 2013 and 2012 and 20% of our total net revenue in 2011. quaker foods north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, qfna makes, markets, sells and distributes cereals, rice, pasta, dairy and other branded products. qfna's products include quaker oatmeal, aunt jemima mixes and syrups, quaker chewy granola bars, cap'n crunch cereal, quaker grits, life cereal, rice-a-roni side dishes, quaker rice cakes, quaker oat squares and quaker natural granola. these branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. qfna's net revenue was $ 2.6 billion in both 2013 and 2012 and $ 2.7 billion in 2011, and approximated 4% of our total net revenue in 2013, 2012 and 2011. latin america foods either independently or in conjunction with third parties, laf makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of snack food brands including doritos, marias gamesa, cheetos, ruffles, emperador, saladitas, sabritas, elma chips, tostitos and rosquinhas mabel, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks. these branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. laf's net revenue was $ 8.3 billion , $ 7.8 3 table of contents billion and $ 7.2 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and approximated 12% of our total net revenue in both 2013 and 2012 and 11% of our total net revenue 2011. pepsico americas beverages either independently or in conjunction with third parties, pab makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, gatorade, mountain dew, diet pepsi, aquafina, 7up (outside the u.s.), diet mountain dew, tropicana pure premium, sierra mist and mirinda. pab also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea and coffee products through joint ventures with unilever (under the lipton brand name) and starbucks. further, pab manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from dr pepper snapple group, inc. (dpsg), including dr pepper, crush and schweppes, and certain juice brands licensed from dole food company, inc. (dole) and ocean spray cranberries, inc. (ocean spray). pab operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities and sells branded finished goods directly to independent distributors and retailers. pab also sells concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized and independent bottlers, who in turn also sell our brands as finished goods to independent distributors and retailers in certain markets. pab's net revenue was $ 21.1 billion , $ 21.4 billion and $ 22.4 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and approximated 32% , 33% and 34% of our total net revenue in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. europe either independently or in conjunction with third parties, europe makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading snack food brands including lay's, walkers, doritos, cheetos and ruffles, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. europe also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, pepsi max, 7up, diet pepsi and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. in certain markets, however, europe operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. europe also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). in addition, europe makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading dairy products including domik v derevne, chudo and agusha. europe's net revenue was $ 13.8 billion , $ 13.4 billion and $ 13.6 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and approximated 21% of our total net revenue in 2013 and 20% of our total net revenue in both 2012 and 2011. see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our acquisition of wimm-bill-dann foods ojsc (wbd) in 2011. asia, middle east and africa either independently or in conjunction with third parties, amea makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading snack food brands including lay's, kurkure, chipsy, doritos, cheetos and smith's through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. further, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, amea makes, markets and sells many quaker-branded cereals and snacks. amea also makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, mirinda, 7up, mountain dew, aquafina and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. however, in certain markets, amea operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. amea also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). further, we license the tropicana brand for use in china on co-branded juice products to a strategic alliance with tingyi (cayman islands) 4 table of contents holding corp. (tingyi). amea's net revenue was $6.5 billion , $6.7 billion and $7.4 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and approximated 10% of our total net revenue in 2013 and 2012 and 11% of our total net revenue in 2011. see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our transaction with tingyi in 2012. our distribution network our products are brought to market through direct-store-delivery (dsd), customer warehouse and distributor networks. the distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. these distribution systems are described under the heading our distribution network contained in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. ingredients and other supplies the principal ingredients we use in our food and beverage businesses are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (pet) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities for us due to their use in our facilities and in the trucks delivering our products. we employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages. many of these ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivatives. in addition, risk to our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. when prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our exposure to commodity costs. see also item 1a. risk factors our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. our brands we own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including agusha, amp energy, aquafina, aquafina flavorsplash, aunt jemima, cap'n crunch, cheetos, chester's, chipsy, chudo, cracker jack, diet mountain dew, diet mug, diet pepsi, diet sierra mist, domik v derevne, doritos, duyvis, elma chips, emperador, frito-lay, fritos, fruktovy sad, frustyle, gatorade, g2, g series, grandma's, imunele, izze, kurkure, lay's, life, lubimy sad, manzanita sol, marias gamesa, matutano, mirinda, miss vickie's, mother's, mountain dew, mountain dew code red, mountain dew kickstart, mug, munchies, naked, near east, o.n.e., paso de los toros, pasta roni, pepsi, pepsi max, pepsi next, propel, quaker, quaker chewy, rice-a-roni, rold gold, rosquinhas mabel, ruffles, sabritas, sakata, saladitas, sandora, santitas, 7up (outside the united states) and 7up free (outside the united states), sierra mist, simba, smartfood, smith's, snack a jacks, sobe, sobe lifewater, sobe v water, sonric's, stacy's, sting, sunchips, tonus, tostitos, trop 50, tropicana, tropicana farmstand, tropicana pure premium, tropicana twister, vesely molochnik, walkers and ya. we also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products in certain markets, including dole and ocean spray. we also distribute rockstar energy drinks, muscle milk protein shakes and certain dpsg brands, including dr pepper, crush and schweppes, in certain markets. joint ventures in which we have an ownership interest either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as lipton, m ller, sabra and starbucks. trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. we have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as 5 table of contents snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. in addition, we license the use of our trademarks on merchandise that is sold at retail for the primary purpose of enhancing brand awareness. we either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to some of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. some of these patents are licensed to others. seasonality our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. for instance, our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food and dairy sales are higher in the cooler months. weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. however, taken as a whole, seasonality does not have a material impact on our consolidated financial results. our customers our primary customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores and authorized independent bottlers. we normally grant our independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. these arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality. we also grant distribution rights to our independent bottlers for certain beverage products bearing our trademarks for specified geographic areas. in 2013, sales to wal-mart stores, inc. (wal-mart), including sam's club (sam's), represented approximately 11% of our total net revenue. our top five retail customers represented approximately 30% of our 2013 north american (united states and canada) net revenue, with wal-mart (including sam's) representing approximately 17% . these percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. see our customers contained in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our independent bottlers. our competition our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. our beverage, snack and food brands compete against global, regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. in many countries in which we do business, the coca-cola company is our primary beverage competitor. other food and beverage competitors include, but are not limited to, conagra foods, inc., dpsg, kellogg company, kraft foods group, inc., mondel z international, inc., monster beverage corporation, nestl s.a., red bull gmbh and snyder's-lance, inc. in many markets, we also compete against numerous regional and local companies. many of our snack and food brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack and food industry worldwide. however, the coca-cola company has significant carbonated soft drink (csd) share advantage in many markets outside the united states. our beverage, snack and food brands compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging, pricing, increased efficiency in production techniques, new vending and dispensing equipment 6 table of contents and brand and trademark development and protection. we believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allows us to compete effectively. (1) the categories and category share information in the charts above are through december 2013 based on data provided and verified by information resources, inc. (iri). the above charts include data from most major retail chains (including wal-mart) but exclude data from certain retailers that do not report to this service. (2) does not sum due to rounding. research and development we engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to invest to accelerate growth in these activities and to drive innovation globally. these activities principally involve production, processing and packaging and include: development of new ingredients and products; reformulation of existing products; improvement in the quality of existing products; improvement and modernization of manufacturing processes; improvements in product quality, safety and integrity; improvements in packaging technology; improvements in dispensing equipment; development and implementation of new technologies to enhance the quality and value of current and proposed product lines; efforts focused on identifying opportunities to transform and grow our product portfolio, including the development of sweetener and flavor innovation and recipes that reduce sodium levels in certain of our products. our research centers are located around the world, including in china, germany, india, mexico, russia, turkey, the united kingdom and the united states, and leverage nutrition science, food science and consumer insights to meet our strategy to develop healthful, convenient foods and beverages. in 2013, we continued to expand our portfolio of nutritious foods and beverages that include fruits, vegetables, whole grains, low-fat dairy, nuts, seeds and key nutrients, as well as offerings that provide a functional benefit, such as addressing the performance needs of athletes. we continue to refine our food and beverage portfolio to meet changing consumer needs by developing a broader portfolio of product choices. we also made investments to minimize our impact on the environment, including innovation in our packaging to make it increasingly sustainable, and developed and implemented new technologies to enhance the quality and value of our current and future products, as well as made investments to incorporate into our operations best practices and technology to support sustainable agriculture and to reduce our impact on the environment. we continue to make investments to conserve energy and raw materials, reduce waste in our facilities, recycle containers, use renewable resources and optimize package design to use less materials. consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. research and development costs were $ 665 million in 2013, $552 million in 2012 and $525 million in 2011 and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses. 7 table of contents regulatory environment and environmental compliance the conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, advertising, marketing, labeling, safety and health practices, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the united states in markets in which our products are made, manufactured or sold. it is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. we are required to comply with a variety of u.s. laws and regulations, including but not limited to: the federal food, drug and cosmetic act and various state laws governing food safety; the food safety modernization act; the occupational safety and health act; the clean air act; the clean water act; the resource conservation and recovery act; the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act; the federal motor carrier safety act; the lanham act; various federal and state laws and regulations governing competition and trade practices; various federal and state laws and regulations governing our employment practices, including those related to equal employment opportunity, such as the equal employment opportunity act and the national labor relations act; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations; and laws regulating sale of certain of our products in schools. in our business dealings, we are also required to comply with the foreign corrupt practices act and the trade sanctions reform and export enhancement act. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including state consumer protection laws such as proposition 65 in california which requires that, unless a safe harbor level exists and has been met, a specific warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the state of california as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. see also item 1a. risk factors changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. we are also subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside the u.s., including but not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, health and safety, anti-corruption and data privacy. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions as is compliance with the anti-corruption laws. we rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business. see also item 1a. risk factors changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. and item 1a. risk factors our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold. certain jurisdictions in which our products are sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, taxes or other limitations on certain ingredients we use or products we sell. for example, certain federal, state and local governments in the united states, and in certain other countries in which our products are sold, including mexico, have either imposed or are considering the imposition of taxes and other limitations on the sale of certain of our products, including certain of our products that exceed specified caloric contents or include specified ingredients such as caffeine. certain of these governments are also considering proposals to require labeling of foods that are, or contain ingredients that are, genetically modified and to restrict the use of benefit programs, such as the supplemental nutrition assistance program, to purchase certain beverages and foods. in addition, legislation has been enacted in certain u.s. states and in certain other countries in which our products are sold that requires collection and recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers, unless a deposit or other fee is charged. it is possible that similar or more restrictive legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. see also item 1a. risk factors 8 table of contents changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. and item 1a. risk factors imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance. the cost of compliance with u.s. and foreign laws does not have a material financial impact on our results of operations. we are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the united states and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater discharge and air emissions. in the united states, our facilities must comply with the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the resource conservation and recovery act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, storage, release and disposal of wastes generated on-site and sent to third-party owned and operated off-site licensed facilities. our policy is to meet all applicable environmental compliance requirements, and we have internal programs in place to enhance our global environmental compliance. we and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. while these environmental and indemnification obligations cannot be predicted with certainty, environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. see also item 1a. risk factors changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (itra) requires disclosure of certain activities relating to iran by pepsico or its affiliates that occurred during our 2013 fiscal year. as previously disclosed, one of our foreign subsidiaries historically maintained a small office in iran, which provided sales support to independent bottlers in iran in connection with in-country sales of foreign-owned beverage brands, and which was not in contravention of any applicable u.s. sanctions laws. in 2012, our foreign subsidiary took steps to close its office in iran, including terminating all three of its employees, and the office has ceased all commercial activity since the enactment of itra. during 2013, our foreign subsidiary continued the process of winding down its office in iran pursuant to a general license from the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control (ofac) until the expiration of such license in march 2013. the subsidiary did not engage in any activities in iran other than wind-down activities in 2013, or have any revenues or profits attributable to activities in iran during 2013. the office of the subsidiary continues to have one local bank account, containing aggregate deposits of approximately $180, with a bank identified on the list of specially designated nationals maintained by ofac. the subsidiary has applied for a license from ofac to authorize continuation and completion of wind-down, including closing the bank account, and plans to resume and complete such wind-down activities upon receipt thereof. employees as of december 28, 2013, we employed approximately 274,000 people worldwide, including approximately 106,000 people within the united states. our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. we or our subsidiaries are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. we expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. we believe that relations with our employees are generally good. 9 table of contents available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act), are also available free of charge on our internet site at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, you should carefully consider the following factors which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. the risks below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively. we are a global food and beverage company operating in highly competitive categories and we rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. our success depends on: our ability to anticipate and respond to shifts in consumer trends, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are concerned with health and wellness; our product quality; our ability to extend our portfolio of convenient foods and beverages in growing markets; our ability to develop or acquire new products that are responsive to certain consumer preferences, including reducing sodium, added sugars and saturated fat; developing a broader portfolio of product choices and increasing non-carbonated beverage offerings; our ability to develop sweetener innovation; our ability to improve the production and packaging of our products; and our ability to respond to competitive product and pricing pressures. for example, our growth rate may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain or grow our current share of the liquid refreshment beverage market in north america, or our current share of the snacks market globally, or if demand for our products does not grow in emerging and developing markets. in general, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population; consumer concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients, such as 4-mei, acrylamide, artificial sweeteners, caffeine, high-fructose corn syrup, saturated fat, trans fats, sodium, sugar, or other product ingredients or attributes, including genetically modified ingredients; changes in product packaging, including convenience packaging; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns; changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; negative publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory action, litigation against us or other companies in our industry or 10 table of contents negative or inaccurate posts or comments in the media, including social media, about us, our products or advertising campaigns and marketing programs; consumer perception of social media posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; a downturn in economic conditions; taxes imposed on our products; or consumer perception of our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, joint venture partners or other third parties or the business practices of such parties. any of these changes may reduce consumers' willingness to purchase our products. see also changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance. , our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. , unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. and any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products and improving the quality of existing products, and the effectiveness of our product packaging, advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including our ability to successfully adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, such as through use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. although we devote significant resources to the actions mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. in addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns and marketing programs are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs. see also any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, health and safety practices, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the united states in markets in which our products are made, manufactured or sold, including in emerging and developing markets where legal and regulatory systems may be less developed, and in some cases, less certain. these laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. such changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to product labeling, advertising and marketing practices; laws regarding the import or export of our products or ingredients used in our products; laws and programs restricting the sale and advertising of certain of our products; laws and programs aimed at reducing, restricting or eliminating ingredients present in certain of our products; laws and programs aimed at discouraging the consumption or altering the package or portion size of certain of our products, including laws imposing restrictions on the use of government programs, such as the supplemental nutrition assistance program, to purchase certain of our products; increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving, product claims and concerns regarding the effects on health of ingredients in, or attributes of, certain of our products, including without limitation those found in energy drinks; state consumer protection laws; taxation requirements, including the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other limitations on the sale of our products; competition laws; anti-corruption laws; employment laws; privacy laws; laws regulating 11 table of contents the price we may charge for our products; laws regulating access to and use of water or utilities; and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment and wastewater discharge. new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, including taxes or other limitations on the sale of our products, ingredients contained in our products or commodities used in the production of our products, may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where our products are made, manufactured or sold may also impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. if one jurisdiction imposes or proposes to impose new requirements or restrictions, other jurisdictions may follow and the requirements or restrictions, or proposed requirements or restrictions, may result in adverse publicity (whether or not valid). for example, if the state of california requires a specific warning on any product that contains certain ingredients or substances, other jurisdictions may react and impose restrictions on products containing the same ingredients or substances which may result in adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of such products (whether or not valid). in addition, studies are underway by third parties to assess the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, including 4-mei, acrylamide and sugar. if consumer concerns, whether or not valid, about the health implications of consumption of ingredients or substances present in certain of our products increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, new labeling, product or production requirements or other restrictions, or for any other reason, including adverse publicity as a result of any such new requirements, or if we are required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold, demand for our products could decline, and we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see also imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance. , our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. and any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees or suppliers could take actions that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations. violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions or financial penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. we cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. see also item 1. business - regulatory environment and environmental compliance. , imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance. and our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our 12 table of contents business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold. imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance. our products are sold in more than 200 countries and territories. as such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of various federal, state and local governments in the united states, as well as to tax laws and regulations outside the united states. the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other limitations on the sale of our products, ingredients contained in our products or commodities used in the production of our products, could increase the cost of our products, reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether or not valid) or leave consumers with the perception that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs, resulting in an adverse impact on our financial performance. for example, mexico recently imposed a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages and a tax on certain foods that exceed specified caloric contents, and other jurisdictions have imposed or are considering the imposition of taxes and other limitations on the sale of certain of our products. if one jurisdiction imposes new or increased taxes, or withdraws tax benefits, other jurisdictions may follow. in addition, we are subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service (irs) and other taxing authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes both within and outside the united states. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we operate may make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation could differ from our historical provisions and accruals resulting in an adverse impact on our financial performance. our operations outside the united states generate a significant portion of our net revenue and repatriation of foreign earnings to the united states, or changes in how united states multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings, could adversely affect our financial performance. see also item 1. business - regulatory environment and environmental compliance. and demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively. , changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold. and any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. the food, snack and beverage industries in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. we compete with other large companies in each of the food, snack and beverage categories, including the coca-cola company, conagra foods, inc., dpsg, kellogg company, kraft foods group, inc., mondel z international, inc., monster beverage corporation, nestl s.a., red bull gmbh and snyder's-lance, inc. in many countries where we do business, including the united states, our primary beverage competitor is the coca-cola company. we compete on the basis of brand recognition, taste, price, quality, product variety, distribution, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. if we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or gross margins in the global market or in various local markets. this may have a material adverse impact on our 13 table of contents revenues and profit margins. see also unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold. our operations outside of the united states, particularly in russia, mexico, canada, the united kingdom and brazil, contribute significantly to our revenue and profitability, and we believe that these countries and emerging and developing markets, particularly china and india, and the latin america, africa and middle east regions, present important future growth opportunities for us. however, there can be no assurance that our existing products, variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, market or sell will be accepted or successful in any particular emerging or developing market, due to local or global competition, product price, cultural differences or otherwise. if we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging and developing markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect as a result of our investments as a result of economic and political conditions, increased competition, reduced demand for our products, a slow down in growth in these markets and the related impact on other countries who export to these markets, imposition of new or increased sanctions against, or other regulations restricting contact with, countries in these markets, an inability to acquire or form strategic business alliances or to make necessary infrastructure investments or for any other reason, our financial performance could be adversely affected. unstable economic or political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold, including in mexico, venezuela, the middle east, including egypt, could also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. factors that could adversely affect our business results in these markets include: foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets; restrictions on the import of ingredients used in our products; restrictions on the import or export of our products; regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, which, from time to time, result in significant cash balances in foreign countries such as venezuela, and on the repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the united states; highly inflationary currency, devaluation or fluctuation, such as the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar, argentine peso or turkish lira; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems; imposition of new or increased labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions; and increased costs of business due to compliance with complex foreign and united states laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and the trade sanctions reform and export enhancement act, and adverse consequences, such as the assessment of fines or penalties, for failing to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, disruption in these markets due to political instability or civil unrest could result in a decline in consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products. see also item 1. business - regulatory environment and environmental compliance. , demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively. , changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. , disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. and failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or manage divestitures or refranchisings, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations . 14 table of contents unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. many of the countries in which we operate, including the united states and several of the members of the european union, have experienced and continue to experience unfavorable economic conditions. our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by these unfavorable economic conditions, including: adverse changes in interest rates, tax laws or tax rates; volatile commodity markets and inflation; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace due to legislation or other economic conditions such as the european sovereign debt crisis, which may potentially impair our ability to access the capital markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all; the effects of government initiatives to manage economic conditions, including changes to or cessation of any such initiatives; reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow-down in the general global economy or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other economy products, or to less profitable channels; impairment of assets; or a decrease in the fair value of pension or post-retirement assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension or post-retirement plans. in addition, we cannot predict how current or worsening economic conditions will affect our critical customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties and any negative impact on any of the foregoing may also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. in addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including u.s. and non-u.s. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks and other financial institutions, may be exposed to a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a major financial institution may limit the availability of credit or willingness of financial institutions to extend credit on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all or, with respect to financial institutions who are parties to our financing arrangements, leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or unhedged against certain currencies or price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials which could have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. see also imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. we and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business. the principal ingredients we use include apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including pet and polypropylene resin used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities for us due to their use in our facilities and in the trucks delivering our products. some of these raw materials and supplies are sourced internationally and some are available from a limited number of suppliers or are in short supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. we are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy, including fuel. the raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental incentives and controls. we purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. if commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating results. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of certain raw materials and energy, including fuel. certain of these derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment 15 table of contents can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. see also changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. , climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. and market risks contained in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity initiatives or global operating model could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our productivity initiatives help fund our growth initiatives and contribute to our results of operations. we are implementing strategic plans that we believe will position our business for future success and growth by allowing us to achieve a lower cost structure and operate more efficiently in the highly competitive food, snack and beverage industries. in order to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. in addition, it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plans. our future success and earnings growth depends in part on our ability to reduce costs and improve efficiencies. if we are unable to successfully implement our productivity initiatives, fail to implement these initiatives as timely as we anticipate or fail to identify and implement additional productivity opportunities in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, we continue to implement our global operating model to improve efficiency, decision making, innovation and brand management across the global pepsico organization. if we are unable to implement this model effectively, it may have a negative impact on our ability to deliver sustained or breakthrough innovation or to otherwise compete effectively. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability, and that of our suppliers, third parties, including our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint venture partners, independent distributors and retailers, to make, manufacture, distribute and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or transportation and distribution capabilities due to any of the following could impair the ability to make, manufacture, transport, distribute or sell our products: adverse weather conditions or natural disaster, such as a hurricane, earthquake or flooding; government action; fire; terrorism; outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; pandemic; industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; strikes and other labor disputes; or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and business partners. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling, misbranding, spoilage, allergens or contamination, even if untrue, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. if any of our products are mislabeled or become unfit for consumption, causes injury, illness or death, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject 16 table of contents to liability or government action, which could result in payment of damages or fines. a product recall or a product liability issue could cause certain of our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could reduce consumer demand and brand equity. we could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in product quality, safety and integrity generally. in addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, without limitation, anti-corruption laws, competition laws and the tax laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our products are sold. in the event that our employees engage in improper activities abroad, we may be subject to enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences which may cause us to suffer damage to our reputation in the united states and abroad. our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental practices for all of our operations and activities; the failure to achieve our goal of continuing to refine our food and beverage choices to meet changing consumer demands by reducing sodium, added sugars and saturated fat and developing a broader portfolio of product choices; health concerns (whether or not valid) about our products or particular ingredients in our products, including whether certain of our products contribute to obesity; the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other limitations on the sale or advertising of our products; our research and development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, water, energy use and waste management; the practices of our employees, agents, customers, distributors, suppliers, bottlers, joint venture partners or other third parties with respect to any of the foregoing; any failure to comply, or perception of a failure to comply, with our policies and statements, including those regarding advertising to children; consumer perception of our advertising campaigns or marketing programs; consumer perception of our use of social media; or our responses to any of the foregoing or negative publicity as a result of any of the foregoing. the rising popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination, and, as a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us, our products or advertising campaigns and marketing programs, and consumer perception of posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, may also generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation. in addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and demand for water continues to increase. our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use. failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. see also demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively. , changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. and imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance. failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or manage divestitures or refranchisings, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we regularly evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and refranchisings. potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things: our ability to realize the full extent of the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the completion of an acquisition, divestiture or refranchising, or the formation of a joint venture, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with an acquisition, joint venture, divestiture or refranchising; and diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations. with respect to 17 table of contents acquisitions, the following also pose potential risks: our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the manufacturing, distribution, sales and administrative support activities and information technology systems between us and the acquired company and our ability to successfully operate in new categories or territories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting, environmental compliance and health and safety compliance), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between us and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of the acquisitions. with respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. in addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the united states increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the united states, including fluctuations in exchange rates and compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, and laws and regulations outside the united states. with respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we may not be able to complete such transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all. further, as divestitures and refranchisings may reduce our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain may adversely impact sales or business performance. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, or if a divestiture or refranchising is not successfully completed or managed or does not result in the benefits we expect, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. if we are unable to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business. our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. we compete to hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions, including our chief executive officer, or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. in addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. trade consolidation or the loss of any key customer could adversely affect our financial performance. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including wal-mart, as well as other retailers, to effectively compete. the loss of any of our key customers, including wal-mart, could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. in addition, our industry has been affected by increasing concentration of retail ownership, particularly in north america and europe, which may impact our ability to compete as such retailers may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. failure to appropriately respond to any such actions or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance. 18 table of contents our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings. we expect to maintain tier 1 commercial paper access which we believe will ensure appropriate financial flexibility and ready access to global credit markets at favorable interest rates. any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, whether as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our control, could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us, or at all. in addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade. see also our liquidity and capital resources contained in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our business could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against a cybersecurity incident. our information systems could be compromised by unauthorized outside parties intent on extracting sensitive data or confidential information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes or by inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors. a cybersecurity incident resulting in a security breach, or failure to identify a cybersecurity threat, could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of sensitive data, confidential information or other assets as well as litigation, regulatory enforcement, violation of data privacy and security laws and regulations, remediation costs, damage to our reputation and loss of revenue resulting from unauthorized use of confidential information or failure to retain or attract customers and consumers following such an incident. see also any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. and if we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or share services for certain functions effectively, our business could suffer. if we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or share services for certain functions effectively, our business could suffer. we depend on information technology, including cloud-based services, to enable and improve the effectiveness of our operations, to interface with our customers and consumers, to order and manage materials from suppliers, to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements, to collect and store sensitive data or confidential information and for digital marketing activities and electronic communication among our global operations and between our employees and the employees of our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint ventures, suppliers and other third parties. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if our systems are damaged, destroyed or shut down as a result of natural disasters, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, malicious or disruptive software, hackers or otherwise, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property, damage to our reputation, or the loss of sensitive or confidential data through security breach or otherwise. we have embarked on a multi-year business transformation initiative to migrate certain of our financial processing systems to enterprise-wide systems solutions. there can be no certainty that this initiative will deliver the expected benefits. the failure to deliver the expected benefits may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could 19 table of contents result in the loss of customers. in addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. we have entered into agreements to share certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing, benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, to third-party service providers and may enter into agreements to share services for other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if these service providers do not perform, or do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers and our reputation could be harmed. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breach or otherwise, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation and could have a negative impact on employee morale. see also any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. and our business could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against a cybersecurity incident. fluctuations in exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the united states are translated into u.s. dollars. our operations outside of the u.s. generate a significant portion of our net revenue. fluctuations in exchange rates may therefore adversely impact our business results or financial condition. see also market risks contained in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and notes 1 and 10 to our consolidated financial statements. climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. there is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, potatoes and various fruits. we may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. the increasing concern over climate change also may result in new or increased regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulation is more aggressive than the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. see also demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively. , changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. 20 table of contents and disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a portion of our workforce belongs to unions. failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages could cause our business to suffer. many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. the terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. our intellectual property rights could be infringed or challenged and reduce the value of our products and brands and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets that are important to our business and relate to a variety of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see also changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. potential liabilities and costs from litigation or legal proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including but not limited to litigation related to our advertising, marketing or commercial practices, product labels, claims and ingredients and environmental and insurance matters. since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that management's assessment of the materiality of these matters, including the reserves taken in connection therewith, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or proceedings. in the event that management's assessment of materiality of current claims and proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, results of operations or cash flows. see also any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our financial performance. many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our financial performance. such factors, some of which are beyond our control, may include, but are not limited to: unfavorable economic conditions; changes in financial or tax reporting and changes in accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results and investor perceptions of our performance; actions by shareholders or others seeking to influence our business strategies; and the impact of our share repurchase program. in addition, corporate actions, such as those we may or may not take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure, including as a result of business, legal and tax 21 table of contents considerations, may not have the impact we intend and may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our financial performance. the above factors, as well as other risks included in this item 1a. risk factors, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and our financial performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 121 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks.risk factors 11 and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business our business risks in item 7. investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all-inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance. part i item 1. business. pepsico, inc. was incorporated in delaware in 1919 and was reincorporated in north carolina in 1986. when used in this report, the terms we, us, our, pepsico and the company mean pepsico, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively. we are a leading global food and beverage company with a complementary portfolio of enjoyable brands, including frito-lay, gatorade, pepsi-cola, quaker and tropicana. through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third parties, we make, market, distribute and sell a wide variety of convenient and enjoyable beverages, foods and snacks, serving customers and consumers in more than 200 countries and territories. performance with purpose is our goal to deliver sustained value by providing a wide range of beverages, foods and snacks, from treats to healthy eats; finding innovative ways to minimize our impact on the environment and lower our costs through energy and water conservation as well as reduce our use of packaging material; providing a safe and inclusive workplace for our employees globally; and respecting, supporting and investing in the local communities in which we operate. pepsico was again recognized for its leadership in this area in 2014 by earning a place on the prestigious dow jones world index for the eighth consecutive year and on the north america index for the ninth consecutive year. certain terms used in this annual report on form 10-k are defined in the glossary included in item 7. of this report. 2 table of contents our operations we are organized into six reportable segments (also referred to as divisions), as follows: 1) frito-lay north america (flna); 2) quaker foods north america (qfna); 3) latin america foods (laf), which includes all of our food and snack businesses in latin america; 4) pepsico americas beverages (pab), which includes all of our north american and latin american beverage businesses; 5) pepsico europe (europe), which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in europe and south africa; and 6) pepsico asia, middle east and africa (amea), which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in amea, excluding south africa. see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and geographic areas. see also risk factors in item 1a. below for a discussion of certain risks associated with our operations outside the united states. frito-lay north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, flna makes, markets, distributes and sells branded snack foods. these foods include lay's potato chips, doritos tortilla chips, cheetos cheese-flavored snacks, tostitos tortilla chips, branded dips, ruffles potato chips, fritos corn chips and santitas tortilla chips. flna's branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. in addition, flna's joint venture with strauss group makes, markets, distributes and sells sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. flna's net revenue was $14.5 billion , $ 14.1 billion and $ 13.6 billion in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and approximated 22% of our total net revenue in 2014 and 21% of our total net revenue in both 2013 and 2012 . quaker foods north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, qfna makes, markets, distributes and sells cereals, rice, pasta, dairy and other branded products. qfna's products include quaker oatmeal, aunt jemima mixes and syrups, quaker chewy granola bars, quaker grits, cap'n crunch cereal, life cereal, rice-a-roni side dishes, quaker rice cakes, quaker oat squares and quaker natural granola. these branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. qfna's net revenue was $ 2.6 billion in each of 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , and approximated 4% of our total net revenue in each of 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . latin america foods either independently or in conjunction with third parties, laf makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of snack food brands including doritos, cheetos, marias gamesa, ruffles, emperador, saladitas, lay's, rosquinhas mabel, elma chips and sabritas, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks. these branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. laf's net revenue was $8.4 billion , $ 8.3 billion and $ 7.8 billion in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and approximated 12% of our total net revenue in each of 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . 3 table of contents pepsico americas beverages either independently or in conjunction with third parties, pab makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, gatorade, mountain dew, diet pepsi, aquafina, 7up (outside the united states), diet mountain dew, tropicana pure premium, sierra mist and diet 7up (outside the united states). pab also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea and coffee products through joint ventures with unilever (under the lipton brand name) and starbucks, respectively. further, pab manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from dr pepper snapple group, inc. (dpsg), including dr pepper, crush and schweppes, and certain juice brands licensed from dole food company, inc. (dole) and ocean spray cranberries, inc. (ocean spray). pab operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities and sells branded finished goods directly to independent distributors and retailers. pab also sells concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized and independent bottlers, who in turn sell our branded finished goods to independent distributors and retailers in certain markets. pab's net revenue was $21.2 billion , $ 21.1 billion and $ 21.4 billion in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and approximated 32% of our total net revenue in both 2014 and 2013 , and 33% in 2012 . pepsico europe either independently or in conjunction with third parties, europe makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including lay's, walkers, doritos, cheetos and ruffles, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. europe also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, pepsi max, 7up, diet pepsi and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. in certain markets, however, europe operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. europe also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). in addition, europe makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading dairy products including domik v derevne, chudo and agusha. europe's net revenue was $13.3 billion , $ 13.8 billion and $ 13.4 billion in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and approximated 20%, 21% and 20% of our total net revenue in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. pepsico asia, middle east and africa either independently or in conjunction with third parties, amea makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including lay's, kurkure, chipsy, doritos, cheetos and crunchy through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. further, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, amea makes, markets, distributes and sells many quaker-branded cereals and snacks. amea also makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, mirinda, 7up, mountain dew, aquafina and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. however, in certain markets, amea operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. amea also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). further, we license the tropicana brand for use in china on co-branded juice products in connection with a strategic alliance with tingyi (cayman islands) holding corp. (tingyi). amea's net revenue was $6.7 billion , $6.5 billion and $6.7 billion in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and approximated 10% of our total net revenue in each of 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our transaction with tingyi in 2012. 4 table of contents our distribution network our products are brought to market through direct-store-delivery (dsd), customer warehouse and distributor networks. the distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. direct-store-delivery we, our independent bottlers and our distributors operate dsd systems that deliver beverages, foods and snacks directly to retail stores where the products are merchandised by our employees or our independent bottlers. dsd enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. dsd is especially well-suited to products that are restocked often and respond to in-store promotion and merchandising. customer warehouse some of our products are delivered from our manufacturing plants and warehouses to customer warehouses and retail stores. these less costly systems generally work best for products that are less fragile and perishable, and have lower turnover. distributor networks we distribute many of our products through third-party distributors. third-party distributors are particularly effective when greater distribution reach can be achieved by including a wide range of products on the delivery vehicles. for example, our foodservice and vending business distributes beverages, foods and snacks to restaurants, businesses, schools and stadiums through third-party foodservice and vending distributors and operators. ingredients and other supplies the principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. we also use water in the manufacturing of our products. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (pet) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities for us due to their use in our facilities and in the trucks delivering our products. we employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages. many of these ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures. in addition, risk to our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. when prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our exposure to commodity costs. see also item 1a. risk factors our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials or other supplies. our brands and intellectual property rights we own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including agusha, amp energy, aquafina, aquafina flavorsplash, aunt jemima, cap'n crunch, cheetos, chester's, chipsy, chudo, cracker jack, crunchy, diet mountain dew, diet mug, diet pepsi, diet 7up, diet sierra mist, domik v derevne, doritos, duyvis, elma chips, emperador, frito-lay, fritos, fruktovy sad, frustyle, g series, g2, gatorade, grandma's, imunele, izze, kurkure, lay's, life, lubimy, manzanita sol, marias gamesa, matutano, mirinda, miss vickie's, mother's, mountain dew, mountain dew code red, mountain dew 5 table of contents kickstart, mug, munchies, naked, near east, o.n.e., paso de los toros, pasta roni, pepsi, pepsi max, pepsi next, propel, quaker, quaker chewy, rice-a-roni, rold gold, rosquinhas mabel, ruffles, sabritas, sakata, saladitas, sandora, santitas, 7up (outside the united states) and 7up free (outside the united states), sierra mist, simba, smartfood, smith's, snack a jacks, sobe, sobe lifewater, sobe v water, sonric's, stacy's, sting, sunchips, tonus, tostitos, trop 50, tropicana, tropicana farmstand, tropicana pure premium, tropicana twister, vesely molochnik, walkers and ya. we also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products in certain markets, including dole and ocean spray. we also distribute rockstar energy drinks, muscle milk protein shakes and certain dpsg brands, including dr pepper, crush and schweppes, in certain markets. joint ventures in which we have an ownership interest either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as lipton, m ller, sabra and starbucks. trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. we have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. in addition, we license the use of our trademarks on merchandise that is sold at retail, which enhances brand awareness. we either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to certain of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. some of these patents are licensed to others. see also item 1a. risk factors our intellectual property rights could be infringed or challenged and reduce the value of our products and brands and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. seasonality our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. for instance, our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food and dairy sales are higher in the cooler months. weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. however, taken as a whole, seasonality does not have a material impact on our consolidated financial results. our customers our primary customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores and authorized independent bottlers. we normally grant our independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. these arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality. we also grant distribution rights to our independent bottlers for certain beverage products bearing our trademarks for specified geographic areas. since we do not sell directly to the consumer, we rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our products. for our independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include volume-based rebates, product placement fees, promotions and displays. for our independent bottlers, these incentives are referred to as bottler funding and are negotiated annually with each bottler to support a variety of trade and consumer programs, such as consumer incentives, advertising support, new product support, and vending and cooler equipment placement. consumer incentives include coupons, pricing discounts and promotions, and other promotional offers. advertising support is directed at advertising programs and supporting independent bottler media. new product support includes targeted consumer and retailer incentives and direct marketplace support, such as point-of-purchase materials, product placement fees, media and advertising. vending and cooler equipment placement programs support the acquisition and placement of vending machines and cooler equipment. the nature and type of programs vary annually. 6 table of contents changes to the retail landscape, including increased consolidation of retail ownership, and the current economic environment continue to increase the importance of major customers. see item 1a. risk factors the loss of any key customer or changes to the retail landscape could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in 2014 , sales to wal-mart stores, inc. (wal-mart), including sam's club (sam's), represented approximately 12% of our total net revenue. our top five retail customers represented approximately 31% of our 2014 north american (united states and canada) net revenue, with wal-mart (including sam's) representing approximately 18% . these percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers, which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our independent bottlers. our competition our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive industries and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. in many countries in which our products are sold, including the united states, the coca-cola company is our primary beverage competitor. other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, dpsg, kellogg company, kraft foods group, inc., mondel z international, inc., monster beverage corporation, nestl s.a., red bull gmbh and snyder's-lance, inc. many of our food and snack products hold significant leadership positions in the food and snack industry worldwide. however, the coca-cola company has significant carbonated soft drink (csd) share advantage in many markets outside the united states. our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition, taste, price, quality, product variety, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and respond to consumer trends. success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging, pricing, increased efficiency in production techniques, new vending and dispensing equipment and brand and trademark development and protection. we believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allows us to compete effectively. see also item 1a. risk factors our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. 7 table of contents u.s. savory snacks % retail sales in measured channels (1) includes salty snacks (including potato, tortilla, corn, pita, bagel and veggie chips, pretzels, fruit crisps and cheese puffs), snack nuts, seeds, corn nuts, meat snacks, crackers (excluding graham), popcorn, dips, trail mixes, rice cakes and soy chips. u.s. liquid refreshment beverage category share % retail sales in measured channels (1)(2) (1) the categories and category share information in the charts above are through december 2014 based on data provided and verified by information resources, inc. (iri). the above charts include data from most major retail chains (including wal-mart) but exclude data from certain retailers that do not report to this service. (2) does not sum due to rounding. research and development we engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to invest to accelerate growth to drive innovation globally. these activities principally involve production, processing and packaging and include: development of new ingredients and products; reformulation and improvement in the quality of existing products; improvement and modernization of manufacturing processes; improvements in product quality, safety and integrity; development of, and improvements in, packaging technology and dispensing equipment; and efforts focused on identifying opportunities to transform, grow and broaden our product portfolio, including the development of sweetener alternatives and flavor modifiers to reduce added sugar, and recipes that allow us to reduce sodium levels in certain of our products. our research centers are located around the world, including in brazil, china, germany, india, mexico, russia, the united arab emirates, the united kingdom and the united states, and leverage nutrition science, food science, engineering and consumer insights to meet our strategy to develop nutritious, convenient beverages, foods and snacks. in 2014, we continued to refine our beverage, food and snack portfolio to meet changing consumer needs by developing a broader portfolio of product choices, including building on our important nutrition platforms and brands quaker (grains), tropicana (fruits and vegetables), gatorade (sports nutrition for athletes) and naked juice (super-premium juice and protein smoothies) and expanding our portfolio of nutritious products in growing categories, such as dairy, hummus and other fresh dips, and baked grain snacks. we also made investments to minimize our impact on the environment, including innovation in our packaging to make it increasingly sustainable, and developed and implemented new technologies to enhance the quality and value of our current and future products, as well as made investments to incorporate into our operations best practices and technology to support sustainable agriculture and to minimize our impact on the environment. we continue to make investments to conserve energy and raw materials, reduce waste in our facilities, recycle containers, use renewable resources and optimize package design to use fewer materials. consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. research and development costs were $718 million , $ 665 million and $552 million in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses. see also item 1a. risk factors demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on 8 table of contents our part to innovate or market our products effectively and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. regulatory environment and environmental compliance the conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, quality and safety of our products, occupational safety and health practices, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the united states in markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. it is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. we are required to comply with a variety of u.s. laws and regulations, including but not limited to: the federal food, drug and cosmetic act and various state laws governing food safety; the food safety modernization act; the occupational safety and health act; the clean air act; the clean water act; the resource conservation and recovery act; the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act; the federal motor carrier safety act; the lanham act; various federal and state laws and regulations governing competition and trade practices; various federal and state laws and regulations governing our employment practices, including those related to equal employment opportunity, such as the equal employment opportunity act and the national labor relations act; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations; and laws regulating the sale of certain of our products in schools. in our business dealings, we are also required to comply with the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and the trade sanctions reform and export enhancement act. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including state consumer protection laws such as proposition 65 in california which requires that, unless a safe harbor level exists and has been met, a specific warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the state of california as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. see also item 1a. risk factors changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. we are also subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside the united states, including but not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, health and safety, anti-corruption and data privacy. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. we rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business. see also item 1a. risk factors changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. and item 1a. risk factors our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. certain jurisdictions in which our products are sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, taxes or other limitations on, or regulations pertaining to, the sale of certain of our products, ingredients or substances contained in our products or commodities used in the production of our products, including certain of our products that contain added sugar, exceed specified caloric content or include specified ingredients such as caffeine; this includes regulations imposing additional labeling requirements. for example, in 2014, mexico imposed a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages and certain packaged foods. in addition, certain jurisdictions require or are considering proposals to require labeling of foods that are, or contain ingredients that are, genetically modified and to restrict the use of benefit programs, such as the supplemental nutrition assistance 9 table of contents program, to purchase certain beverages and foods. in addition, legislation has been enacted in certain u.s. states and in certain other countries in which our products are sold that requires collection and recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers, unless a deposit or other fee is charged. it is possible that similar or more restrictive legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. in addition, we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. economic and political conditions may result in changes in tax rates which could affect our financial performance. see also item 1a. risk factors changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. and item 1a. risk factors imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the cost of compliance with u.s. and foreign laws does not have a material financial impact on our consolidated results of operations. we are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the united states and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater discharge and air emissions. in the united states, our facilities must comply with the clean air act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the resource conservation and recovery act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, storage, release and disposal of wastes generated on-site and sent to third-party owned and operated off-site licensed facilities and our facilities outside the united states must comply with similar laws and regulations. our policy is to meet all applicable environmental compliance requirements, and we have internal programs in place to enhance our global environmental compliance. we have made, and plan to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws. while these expenditures have not had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, changes in environmental compliance requirements, and any expenditures necessary to comply with such requirements, could affect our financial performance. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. while these environmental and indemnification obligations cannot be predicted with certainty, environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. see also item 1a. risk factors changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (itra) requires disclosure of certain activities relating to iran by pepsico or its affiliates that occurred during our 2014 fiscal year. as previously disclosed, one of our foreign subsidiaries historically maintained a small office in iran, which provided sales support to independent bottlers in iran in connection with in-country sales of foreign-owned beverage brands, and which was not in contravention of any applicable u.s. sanctions laws. the office ceased all commercial activity since the enactment of itra. in addition, the office of the foreign subsidiary had one local bank account, containing aggregate deposits of approximately $180, with a bank identified on the list of specially designated nationals maintained by the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control (ofac). during our 2014 fiscal year, our foreign subsidiary received a license from ofac authorizing it to engage in activities related to the winding down of the office in iran and to close the bank account. following receipt of this license, our foreign subsidiary restarted the process of winding down its office and closed the bank account. subsequent to the end of 2014 , this license expired and the foreign subsidiary ceased the process of winding down its office upon expiration of the license. the foreign subsidiary has applied for a license from ofac to authorize continuation and completion of wind-down activities and intends to continue such activities upon receipt thereof. the foreign subsidiary did not engage in any activities in iran other than wind-down activities in 2014 , or have any revenues or profits attributable to activities in iran during 2014 . 10 table of contents employees as of december 27, 2014 , we employed approximately 271,000 people worldwide, including approximately 107,000 people within the united states. our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. we or our subsidiaries are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. we expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. we believe that relations with our employees are generally good. available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act), are also available free of charge on our internet site at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, you should carefully consider the following factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. the following information should be read together and in conjunction with forward-looking statements, item 1. business, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto. the risks below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are a global food and beverage company operating in highly competitive categories and we rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our success depends on: our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to shifts in consumer trends, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are concerned with health and wellness, convenience and location of origin or source of the products they consume; our product quality; our ability to extend our portfolio of convenient beverages, foods and snacks in growing markets; our ability to develop or acquire new products that are responsive to certain consumer preferences, including reducing sodium, added sugars and saturated fat; our ability to develop a broader portfolio of product choices and increase non-carbonated beverage offerings and alternatives to traditional carbonated beverage offerings; 11 table of contents our ability to develop sweetener innovation; our ability to improve the production and packaging of our products; and our ability to respond to competitive product and pricing pressures. for example, our growth rate may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain or grow our current share of the liquid refreshment beverage market in north america, or our current share of the snacks market globally, or if demand for our products does not grow in developing and emerging markets. in general, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. consumer preferences may evolve due to a variety of factors, including: the aging of the general population; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the nutrition profile of certain of our products, including their caloric content, or perceptions (whether or not valid) regarding the health effects of ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, such as 4-mei, acrylamide, artificial sweeteners, caffeine, high-fructose corn syrup, saturated fat, sodium, sugar, trans fats or other product ingredients, substances or attributes, including genetically modified ingredients; packaging materials; changes in package or portion size; changes in in-home consumption patterns; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns; changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; negative publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory action, litigation against us or other companies in our industry or negative or inaccurate posts or comments in the media, including social media, about us, our products or advertising campaigns and marketing programs; consumer perception of social media posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; consumer perception of our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or the business practices of such parties; a downturn in economic conditions; or taxes or other restrictions imposed on our products. any of these changes may reduce consumers' willingness to purchase our products. see also changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. , our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. , unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. and any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our continued success is also dependent on our product and marketing innovation, including: maintaining a robust pipeline of new products; improving the quality of existing products; and the effectiveness of our product packaging, advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including our ability to successfully adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including through use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. although we devote significant resources to the actions mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop, launch and maintain successful new products or variants of existing products, our ability to introduce new products or variants of existing products in a timely manner or our ability to correctly anticipate or effectively react to changes in consumer preference or develop and effectively execute advertising and marketing campaigns that appeal to consumers. our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands and may result in inventory write-offs and other costs that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. see also any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 12 table of contents changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, transportation and use of many of our products, as well as our health and safety practices, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the united states in markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. many of these laws and regulations may have differing or conflicting legal standards across the various markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold and, in certain markets, such as developing and emerging markets, may be less developed or certain. in addition, these laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. such changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to product labeling, advertising and marketing practices; laws regarding the import or export of our products or ingredients used in our products; laws and programs restricting the sale and advertising of certain of our products; laws and programs aimed at reducing, restricting or eliminating ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, certain of our products; laws and programs aimed at discouraging the consumption or altering the package or portion size of certain of our products, including laws imposing restrictions on the use of government programs, such as the supplemental nutrition assistance program, to purchase certain of our products; increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving product claims and concerns regarding the effects on health of ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, certain of our products, including without limitation those found in energy drinks; state consumer protection laws; taxation requirements, including the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other limitations on the sale of our products; competition laws; anti-corruption laws; employment laws; privacy laws; laws regulating the price we may charge for our products; laws regulating access to and use of water or utilities; and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights, treatment and discharge of wastewater and air emissions. new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, including taxes or other limitations on the sale of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products, may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may increase our costs or liabilities or reduce demand for our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold may also impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. if one jurisdiction imposes or proposes to impose new requirements or restrictions, other jurisdictions may follow and the requirements or restrictions, or proposed requirements or restrictions, may result in adverse publicity (whether or not valid). for example, if one jurisdiction imposes a specific labeling requirement or requires a specific warning on any product that contains certain ingredients or substances, other jurisdictions may react and impose restrictions on products containing the same ingredients or substances, which may result in adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of such ingredients or substances in our products (whether or not valid). in addition, studies are underway by third parties to assess the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, such as 4-mei, acrylamide, caffeine and sugar. if consumer concerns, whether or not valid, about the health implications of consumption of ingredients or substances present in certain of our products increase as a result of these studies, new scientific evidence, new labeling, product or production requirements or other restrictions, or for any other reason, including adverse publicity as a result of any of the foregoing, or if we are required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold, demand for our products could decline, or we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations 13 table of contents that could affect sales of our products, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. in addition, regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, suppliers, or other third parties with whom we do business could take actions, intentional or not, that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations. violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, penalties, disgorgement of profits or activity restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. we cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see also item 1. business regulatory environment and environmental compliance. , imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. , our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. , our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. , product contamination or tampering or issues or concerns with respect to product quality, safety and integrity could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. and any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold in more than 200 countries and territories. as such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of various federal, state and local governments in the united states, as well as to tax laws and regulations outside the united states. the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other limitations on the sale of our products, ingredients or substances contained in our products or commodities used in the production of our products, could increase the cost of our products, reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether or not valid) or leave consumers with the perception that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if one jurisdiction imposes new or increased taxes or limitations, other jurisdictions may follow, which may result in adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of our products (whether or not valid). in addition, we are subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service (irs) and other taxing authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes both within and outside the 14 table of contents united states. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the adoption of new or reformed tax legislation or regulation, may make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation could differ from our historical provisions and accruals resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations outside the united states generate a significant portion of our net revenue and repatriation of foreign earnings to the united states could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, key representatives of the u.s. government have made public statements that tax reform is a priority and many countries outside the united states, including countries in which we have significant operations, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws. changes in how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. see also item 1. business regulatory environment and environmental compliance. and demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. , changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. and any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive industries and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other competitors. we compete with other large companies in each of the beverage, food and snack categories, including the coca-cola company, dpsg, kellogg company, kraft foods group, inc., mondel z international, inc., monster beverage corporation, nestl s.a., red bull gmbh and snyder's-lance, inc. in many countries in which our products are sold, including the united states, our primary beverage competitor is the coca-cola company. our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition, taste, price, quality, product variety, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer trends. if we are unable to effectively promote our existing products or introduce new products, if our advertising or marketing campaigns are not effective or if we are otherwise unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or gross margins in the global market or in various local markets, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. see also unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. 15 table of contents our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. our operations outside of the united states, particularly in russia, mexico, canada, the united kingdom and brazil, contribute significantly to our revenue and profitability, and we believe that these countries and developing and emerging markets, particularly china, india and the latin america, africa and middle east regions, present important future growth opportunities for us. however, there can be no assurance that our existing products, variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, distribute or sell will be accepted or be successful in any particular developing or emerging market, due to local or global competition, product price, cultural differences, consumer preferences or otherwise. the following factors could reduce demand for our products, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations: unstable economic, political or social conditions, acts of war, terrorist acts, and civil unrest in areas where our products are sold, including russia, ukraine, venezuela and the middle east; increased competition; a slowdown in growth and the related impact on other countries who export to these markets; our inability to acquire businesses, form strategic business alliances or to make necessary infrastructure investments; our inability to complete divestitures or refranchisings; imposition of new or increased sanctions against, or other regulations restricting contact with, countries in markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, such as russia, or imposition of new or increased sanctions against u.s. multinational corporations operating in these markets; foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets; restrictions on the import or export of our products or ingredients or substances used in our products; regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, which, from time to time, result in significant cash balances in foreign countries, such as venezuela; regulations on the repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the united states; highly inflationary currency, devaluation or fluctuation, such as the devaluation of the russian ruble, venezuelan bolivar, argentine peso, ukrainian hryvnia and turkish lira; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems; imposition of new or increased labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions; and increased costs of doing business due to compliance with complex foreign and united states laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and the trade sanctions reform and export enhancement act, and adverse consequences, such as the assessment of fines or penalties, for any failure to comply with these laws and regulations. if we are unable to expand our businesses in developing and emerging markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect from our investments, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. see also item 1. business regulatory environment and environmental compliance. , demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. , changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. , business disruptions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. and failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or manage divestitures or refranchisings, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of the countries in which we operate, including the united states and certain countries in europe and latin america, have experienced and continue to experience unfavorable economic conditions. our business 16 table of contents or financial results may be adversely impacted by these unfavorable economic conditions, including: adverse changes in interest rates, tax laws or tax rates; volatile commodity markets; highly inflationary currency, devaluation or fluctuation; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace due to legislation or other economic conditions; the effects of government initiatives to manage economic conditions, including changes to or cessation of any such initiatives; reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow-down in the general global economy or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other economy products, or to less profitable channels; or a decrease in the fair value of pension or post-retirement assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension or post-retirement plans. an adverse change in any of the above factors could have a negative impact on the fair value of our intangible assets, which could require us to record a non-cash impairment charge. in addition, we cannot predict how current or worsening economic conditions will affect our customers, consumers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties and any negative impact on any of the foregoing may also have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including u.s. and non-u.s. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks and other financial institutions, may be exposed to a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks as a result of unfavorable economic conditions or other factors beyond our control. a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a major financial institution may limit the availability of credit or willingness of financial institutions to extend credit on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all or, with respect to financial institutions that are parties to our financing arrangements, leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or exposed to certain currencies or price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials, or result in a decline in the market value of our investments in debt securities, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see also our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. , imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. and our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings. our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. we and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business. the principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. we also use water in the manufacturing of our products. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including pet and polypropylene resin used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities for us due to their use in our facilities and in the trucks delivering our products. some of these raw materials and supplies are sourced from countries experiencing civil unrest, political instability or other unfavorable economic conditions, and some are available from a limited number of suppliers or are in short supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. the raw materials and energy, including fuel, that we use for the manufacturing, production and distribution of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by many factors, including changes 17 table of contents in global supply and demand, weather conditions, disease, agricultural uncertainty, governmental incentives and controls, political uncertainties or governmental instability. shortage of some of these raw materials and other supplies, sustained interruption in their supply or an increase in their costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivatives. if commodity price changes result in unexpected or significant increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our product prices or effectively hedge against commodity price increases to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue, margins and operating results. in addition, certain of the derivatives used to hedge price risk do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and therefore can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. water is also a limited resource in many parts of the world. the lack of available water of acceptable quality and increasing pressure to conserve water in areas of scarcity and stress may lead to supply chain disruption, adverse effects on our operations or higher production costs that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. see also changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. , climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. and market risks contained in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity initiatives or global operating model could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our future success and earnings growth depend in part on our ability to reduce costs and improve efficiencies. our productivity initiatives help fund our growth initiatives and contribute to our results of operations. we are implementing strategic plans that we believe will position our business for future success and long-term sustainable growth by allowing us to achieve a lower cost structure and operate more efficiently in the highly competitive beverage, food and snack industries. we are also continuing to implement our global operating model to improve efficiency, decision making, innovation and brand management across the global pepsico organization to enable us to compete effectively. in order to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts and our global operating model, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. in addition, it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plans. if we are unable to successfully implement our productivity initiatives, fail to implement these initiatives as timely as we anticipate, do not achieve expected savings as a result of these initiatives or incur higher than expected or unanticipated costs in implementing these initiatives, or fail to identify and implement additional productivity opportunities in the future, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. business disruptions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability, and that of our suppliers and other third parties, including our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint venture partners, independent distributors and retailers, to make, manufacture, transport, distribute and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their operations due to any of the following could impair the ability to make, manufacture, transport, distribute or sell our products: adverse weather conditions or natural disaster, such as a hurricane, earthquake or flooding; government 18 table of contents action; economic or political uncertainties or instability in countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold; fire; terrorism; outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; health epidemics or pandemics; cybersecurity incidents; industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; telecommunications failures; power or water shortages; strikes and other labor disputes; or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and other third parties. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our operations. product contamination or tampering or issues or concerns with respect to product quality, safety and integrity could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling, misbranding, spoilage, allergens or contamination, even if untrue, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if any of our products are mislabeled or become unfit for consumption or cause injury, illness or death, or if appropriate resources are not devoted to product quality and safety (particularly as we expand our portfolio into new categories) or to comply with changing food safety requirements, our products may be subject to a product recall and/or be subject to liability or government action, which could result in payment of damages or fines, cause certain of our products to be unavailable for a period of time or result in adverse publicity, which could reduce consumer demand and brand equity. we could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in product quality, safety and integrity generally. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. see also any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are a leading global beverage, food and snack company with brands that are respected household names throughout the world. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. our reputation or brand image could be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental practices for all of our operations and activities or failure to require our suppliers or other third parties to do so; the failure to achieve our goal of continuing to refine our beverage, food and snack choices to meet changing consumer demands by reducing sodium, added sugars and saturated fat and developing a broader portfolio of product choices; health concerns (whether or not valid) about our products or particular ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, our products, including whether certain of our products contribute to obesity; the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other limitations on the sale or advertising of our products; any failure to comply, or perception of a failure to comply, with our policies and goals, including those regarding advertising to children and reducing calorie consumption from sugary drinks; our research and development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, water, energy use and waste management or any failure to achieve our goals with respect to minimizing our impact on the environment; the practices of our employees, agents, customers, distributors, suppliers, bottlers, joint venture partners or other third parties with respect to any of the foregoing; consumer perception of our advertising campaigns or marketing programs; consumer perception of our use of social media; or our responses to any of the foregoing or negative publicity as a result of any of the foregoing. 19 table of contents in addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, without limitation, anti-corruption laws, competition laws and tax laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. in the event that our employees engage in improper activities, we may be subject to enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences, which may cause us to suffer damage to our reputation in the united states or abroad. failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. in addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and demand for water continues to rise. our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use. further, the rising popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. as a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us, our products, policies, practices or advertising campaigns and marketing programs, our use of social media or of posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, or consumer perception of any of the foregoing, may also generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation. damage to our reputation or brand image or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. see also demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. , changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or manage divestitures or refranchisings, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, refranchisings and other strategic transactions. potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things: our ability to realize the full extent of the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the completion of an acquisition, divestiture or refranchising, or the formation of a joint venture, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with an acquisition, joint venture, divestiture or refranchising; and diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations. with respect to acquisitions, the following also pose potential risks: our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the manufacturing, distribution, sales and administrative support activities and information technology systems between us and the acquired company and our ability to successfully operate in new categories or territories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting, environmental compliance and health and safety compliance), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between us and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; identifying and eliminating redundant and 20 table of contents underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of the acquisitions; and other unanticipated problems and liabilities. with respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. in addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the united states increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the united states, including fluctuations in exchange rates and compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, and laws and regulations outside the united states. with respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we may not be able to complete such transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all. further, as divestitures and refranchisings may reduce our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain may adversely impact sales or business performance. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, or if a divestiture or refranchising is not successfully completed or managed or does not result in the benefits we expect, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. if we are unable to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. we compete to hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions, including the chief executive officer, or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage or result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. any of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the loss of any key customer or changes to the retail landscape could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including wal-mart, as well as other retailers, to effectively compete. the loss of any of our key customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, our industry has been affected by changes to the retail landscape, including increased consolidation of retail ownership, particularly in north america and europe, resulting in large retailers with increased purchasing power, which may impact our ability to compete in these areas. such retailers may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks, other distribution channels such as e-commerce, or private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to market systems and brand equity may be eroded. failure to appropriately respond to any such actions or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, if we are unable to resolve a dispute with any of our key customers, or if there is a change in the business condition (financial or otherwise) of any of our key customers, even if unrelated to us, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. see also our customers, contained in item 1. business. 21 table of contents our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings. we expect to maintain tier 1 commercial paper access which we believe will ensure appropriate financial flexibility and ready access to global credit markets at favorable interest rates. any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, whether as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our control, could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us, or at all. further, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade. see also unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. and our liquidity and capital resources contained in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against, or effectively respond to, cybersecurity incidents or if our information systems are otherwise disrupted. we depend on information technology, including public websites and cloud-based services, for many activities important to our business, including to interface with our customers and consumers, to engage in digital marketing activities, to enable and improve the effectiveness of our operations, to order and manage materials from suppliers, to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements, to collect and store sensitive data and confidential information, and to communicate electronically among our global operations and with our employees and the employees of our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint ventures, suppliers and other third parties. as with other large and prominent companies, we are regularly subject to cyberattacks and such attempts are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature and are becoming more sophisticated. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain our information technology infrastructure, if we fail to timely identify or appropriately respond to cybersecurity incidents, or if our information systems are damaged, destroyed or shut down (whether as a result of natural disasters, fires, power outages, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events, network outages, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, user errors, or from deliberate cyberattacks such as malicious or disruptive software, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering, hackers or otherwise), our business could be disrupted and we could, among other things, be subject to: transaction errors; processing inefficiencies; the loss of, or failure to attract new, customers and consumers; the loss of revenues from unauthorized use, acquisition or disclosure of or access to confidential information; the loss of or damage to intellectual property or trade secrets, including the loss or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive data, confidential information or other assets; damage to our reputation; litigation; regulatory enforcement actions; violation of data privacy, security or other laws and regulations; and remediation costs. further, our information systems and the information stored therein, could be compromised by, and we could experience similar adverse consequences due to, unauthorized outside parties intent on accessing or extracting sensitive data or confidential information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes or by inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or agents. similar risks exist with respect to the third-party vendors we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions. see also any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. and if we are not able to successfully implement shared services or utilize information technology systems and networks effectively, our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted. 22 table of contents if we are not able to successfully implement shared services or utilize information technology systems and networks effectively, our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted. we have entered into agreements with third-party service providers to share certain information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and may enter into agreements to share services for other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. in addition, we utilize cloud-based services and systems and networks managed by third-party vendors to process, transmit and store information and to conduct certain of our business activities and transactions with employees, customers, consumers and other third parties. if any of these third-party service providers or vendors do not perform effectively, or if we fail to adequately monitor their performance, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers and our reputation could be harmed. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breach or otherwise, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation and could have a negative impact on employee morale. see also any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. and our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against, or effectively respond to, cybersecurity incidents or if our information systems are otherwise disrupted. we have also embarked on a multi-year business transformation initiative to migrate certain of our systems, including our financial processing systems, to enterprise-wide systems solutions. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers or consumers. in addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers or consumers and revenue. fluctuations in exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the united states, where the functional currency is other than the u.s. dollar, are translated into u.s. dollars. our operations outside of the united states, particularly in russia, mexico, canada, the united kingdom and brazil, generate a significant portion of our net revenue. in addition, we purchase many of the ingredients, raw materials and commodities used in our business in numerous markets and in numerous currencies. fluctuations in exchange rates may therefore adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. see also market risks contained in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and notes 1 and 10 to our consolidated financial statements. climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. there is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, potatoes and various fruits. as a result of climate 23 table of contents change, we may also be subjected to decreased availability of water, deteriorated quality of water or less favorable pricing for water, which could adversely impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. the increasing concern over climate change also may result in new or increased regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulation is more aggressive than the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery and we may be required to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. as a result, the effects of climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. see also demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. , changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. and business disruptions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a portion of our workforce belongs to unions. failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages could cause our business to suffer. many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. strikes or work stoppages or other business interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could impair manufacturing and distribution of our products or result in a loss of sales, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. the terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new collective bargaining agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency or to adapt to changing business needs or strategy. our intellectual property rights could be infringed or challenged and reduce the value of our products and brands and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets that are important to our business and relate to a variety of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see also changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. 24 table of contents potential liabilities and costs from litigation or legal proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including but not limited to litigation related to our advertising, marketing or commercial practices, product labels, claims and ingredients, and environmental, employment and insurance matters. since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that management's assessment of the materiality of these matters, including the reserves taken in connection therewith, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or proceedings. in the event that management's assessment of materiality of current claims and proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see also any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our business, financial condition or results of operations. many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our business, financial condition or results of operations. such factors, some of which are beyond our control, may include, but are not limited to: unfavorable economic conditions; changes in financial or tax reporting and changes in accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results; investor perceptions of our performance; actions by shareholders or others seeking to influence our business strategies; speculation by the media or investment community regarding our business; trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock; and the impact of our share repurchase programs or dividend rate. in addition, corporate actions, such as those we may or may not take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure, including as a result of business, legal and tax considerations, may not have the impact we intend and may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our business, financial condition or results of operations. the above factors, as well as other risks included in this item 1a. risk factors, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and our business, financial condition or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 122 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks.risk factors 11 risk factors and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business our business risks. investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all-inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance. part i item 1. business. when used in this report, the terms we, us, our, pepsico and the company mean pepsico, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively. certain terms used in this annual report on form 10-k are defined in the glossary included in item 7. of this report. company overview we were incorporated in delaware in 1919 and reincorporated in north carolina in 1986. we are a leading global food and beverage company with a complementary portfolio of enjoyable brands, including frito-lay, gatorade, pepsi-cola, quaker and tropicana. through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third parties, we make, market, distribute and sell a wide variety of convenient and enjoyable beverages, foods and snacks, serving customers and consumers in more than 200 countries and territories. our operations we are organized into six reportable segments (also referred to as divisions), as follows: 1) frito-lay north america (flna); 2) quaker foods north america (qfna); 3) north america beverages (nab); 4) latin america, which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in latin america; 5) europe sub-saharan africa (essa), which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in europe and sub-saharan africa; and 6) asia, middle east and north africa (amena), which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in asia, middle east and north africa. 2 table of contents see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and geographic areas. north america includes the united states and canada. see also item 1a. risk factors below for a discussion of certain risks associated with our operations, including outside the united states. frito-lay north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, flna makes, markets, distributes and sells branded snack foods. these foods include lay's potato chips, doritos tortilla chips, cheetos cheese-flavored snacks, tostitos tortilla chips, branded dips, fritos corn chips, ruffles potato chips and santitas tortilla chips. flna's branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. in addition, flna's joint venture with strauss group makes, markets, distributes and sells sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. flna's net revenue was $14.8 billion , $14.5 billion and $14.1 billion in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, and approximated 23% of our total net revenue in 2015 , 22% of our total net revenue in 2014 and 21% of our total net revenue in 2013 . quaker foods north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, qfna makes, markets, distributes and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. qfna's products include quaker oatmeal, aunt jemima mixes and syrups, quaker chewy granola bars, cap'n crunch cereal, quaker grits, life cereal, rice-a-roni side dishes, quaker rice cakes, quaker natural granola and quaker oat squares. these branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. qfna's net revenue was $2.5 billion in 2015 and $2.6 billion in both 2014 and 2013 , and approximated 4% of our total net revenue in each of 2015 , 2014 and 2013 . north america beverages either independently or in conjunction with third parties, nab makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, gatorade, mountain dew, diet pepsi, aquafina, diet mountain dew, tropicana pure premium, sierra mist and mug. nab also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea and coffee products through joint ventures with unilever (under the lipton brand name) and starbucks, respectively. further, nab manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from dr pepper snapple group, inc. (dpsg), including dr pepper, crush and schweppes, and certain juice brands licensed from dole food company, inc. (dole) and ocean spray cranberries, inc. (ocean spray). nab operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities and sells branded finished goods directly to independent distributors and retailers. nab also sells concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized and independent bottlers, who in turn sell our branded finished goods to independent distributors and retailers in certain markets. nab's net revenue was $20.6 billion , $20.2 billion and $20.1 billion in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, and approximated 33% of our total net revenue in 2015 and 30% of our total net revenue in both 2014 and 2013 . latin america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, latin america makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of snack food brands including doritos, cheetos, marias gamesa, ruffles, emperador, saladitas, sabritas, lay's, rosquinhas mabel and tostitos, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks. latin america also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, 7up, gatorade, mirinda, diet 7up, manzanita sol and diet pepsi. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. latin america also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). latin america's net revenue was $8.2 billion , $9.4 3 table of contents billion and $9.3 billion in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, and approximated 13% of our total net revenue in 2015 and 14% of our total net revenue in both 2014 and 2013 . see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for information about the deconsolidation of our venezuelan subsidiaries, which was effective as of the end of the third quarter of 2015. europe sub-saharan africa either independently or in conjunction with third parties, essa makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including lay's, walkers, doritos, cheetos and ruffles, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. essa also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, 7up, pepsi max, mirinda, diet pepsi and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. in certain markets, however, essa operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. essa also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). in addition, essa makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading dairy products including chudo, agusha and domik v derevne. essa's net revenue was $10.5 billion , $13.4 billion and $13.8 billion in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, and approximated 17% of our total net revenue in 2015 , 20% of our total net revenue in 2014 and 21% of our total net revenue in 2013 . asia, middle east and north africa either independently or in conjunction with third parties, amena makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including lay's, kurkure, chipsy, doritos, cheetos and crunchy through consolidated businesses, as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. further, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, amena makes, markets, distributes and sells many quaker-branded cereals and snacks. amena also makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, mirinda, 7up, mountain dew, aquafina and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. in certain markets, however, amena operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. amena also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). further, we license the tropicana brand for use in china on co-branded juice products in connection with a strategic alliance with tingyi (cayman islands) holding corp. (tingyi). amena's net revenue was $6.4 billion , $6.6 billion and $6.4 billion in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, and approximated 10% of our total net revenue in each of 2015, 2014 and 2013 . our distribution network our products are brought to market through direct-store-delivery (dsd), customer warehouse and distributor networks. the distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. direct-store-delivery we, our independent bottlers and our distributors operate dsd systems that deliver beverages, foods and snacks directly to retail stores where the products are merchandised by our employees or our independent bottlers. dsd enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. dsd is especially well-suited to products that are restocked often and respond to in-store promotion and merchandising. 4 table of contents customer warehouse some of our products are delivered from our manufacturing plants and warehouses to customer warehouses. these less costly systems generally work best for products that are less fragile and perishable, and have lower turnover. distributor networks we distribute many of our products through third-party distributors. third-party distributors are particularly effective when greater distribution reach can be achieved by including a wide range of products on the delivery vehicles. for example, our foodservice and vending business distributes beverages, foods and snacks to restaurants, businesses, schools and stadiums through third-party foodservice and vending distributors and operators. ingredients and other supplies the principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. we also use water in the manufacturing of our products. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (pet) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities for us due to their use in our facilities and the vehicles delivering our products. we employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages that would prevent us from meeting our requirements. many of these ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures. in addition, risk to our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. when prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. in addition, we continue to make investments to improve the sustainability and resources of our agricultural supply chain, including by developing our initiative to advance sustainable farming practices by our suppliers and expanding it globally. see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our exposure to commodity costs. our brands and intellectual property rights we own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including agusha, amp energy, aquafina, aquafina flavorsplash, aunt jemima, cap'n crunch, cheetos, chester's, chipsy, chudo, cracker jack, crunchy, diet mountain dew, diet mug, diet pepsi, diet 7up (outside the united states), diet sierra mist, domik v derevne, doritos, duyvis, elma chips, emperador, frito-lay, fritos, fruktovy sad, frustyle, g series, g2, gatorade, grandma's, imunele, izze, kas, kurkure, lay's, life, lifewater, lubimy, manzanita sol, marias gamesa, matutano, mirinda, miss vickie's, mother's, mountain dew, mountain dew code red, mountain dew kickstart, mug, munchies, naked, near east, o.n.e., paso de los toros, pasta roni, pepsi, pepsi max, pepsi next, propel, quaker, quaker chewy, rice-a-roni, rold gold, rosquinhas mabel, ruffles, sabritas, sakata, saladitas, sandora, santitas, 7up (outside the united states) and 7up free (outside the united states), sierra mist, simba, smartfood, smith's, snack a jacks, sobe, sobe lifewater, sobe v water, sonric's, stacy's, sting, sunchips, tonus, tostitos, trop 50, tropicana, tropicana farmstand, tropicana pure premium, tropicana twister, vesely molochnik, walkers and ya. we also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products in certain markets, including dole and ocean spray. we also distribute rockstar energy drinks, muscle milk protein shakes and various dpsg brands, including dr pepper in certain markets, crush and schweppes. joint ventures in which we have an ownership interest either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as lipton, 5 table of contents sabra and starbucks. trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. we have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. in addition, we license the use of our trademarks on merchandise that is sold at retail, which enhances brand awareness. we either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to certain of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. some of these patents are licensed to others. seasonality our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. for instance, our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food and dairy sales are higher in the cooler months. weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. however, taken as a whole, seasonality has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial results. our customers our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. we normally grant our independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. these arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality. we also grant distribution rights to our independent bottlers for certain beverage products bearing our trademarks for specified geographic areas. we rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our products to the consumer. for our independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include volume-based rebates, product placement fees, promotions and displays. for our independent bottlers, these incentives are referred to as bottler funding and are negotiated annually with each bottler to support a variety of trade and consumer programs, such as consumer incentives, advertising support, new product support, and vending and cooler equipment placement. consumer incentives include coupons, pricing discounts and promotions, and other promotional offers. advertising support is directed at advertising programs and supporting independent bottler media. new product support includes targeted consumer and retailer incentives and direct marketplace support, such as point-of-purchase materials, product placement fees, media and advertising. vending and cooler equipment placement programs support the acquisition and placement of vending machines and cooler equipment. the nature and type of programs vary annually. changes to the retail landscape, including increased consolidation of retail ownership, and the current economic environment continue to increase the importance of major customers. in 2015 , sales to wal-mart stores, inc. (wal-mart), including sam's club (sam's), represented approximately 13% of our total net revenue. our top five retail customers represented approximately 32% of our 2015 net revenue in north america, with wal-mart (including sam's) representing approximately 18% . these percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers, which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our independent bottlers. 6 table of contents our competition our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other competitors. in many countries in which our products are sold, including the united states, the coca-cola company is our primary beverage competitor. other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, dpsg, kellogg company, the kraft heinz company, mondel z international, inc., monster beverage corporation, nestl s.a., red bull gmbh and snyder's-lance, inc. many of our food and snack products hold significant leadership positions in the food and snack industry in the united states and worldwide. in 2015, we and the coca-cola company represented approximately 24% and 20%, respectively, of the u.s. liquid refreshment beverage category by estimated retail sales in measured channels, according to information resources, inc. however, the coca-cola company has significant carbonated soft drink (csd) share advantage in many markets outside the united states. our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition, taste, price, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness. success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, effective introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging, pricing, increased efficiency in production techniques, new vending and dispensing equipment and brand and trademark development and protection. we believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allows us to compete effectively. research and development we engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to invest to accelerate growth and to drive innovation globally. these activities principally involve: development of new ingredients and products; reformulation and improvement in the quality and appeal of existing products; improvement and modernization of manufacturing processes; improvements in product quality, safety and integrity; development of, and improvements in, dispensing equipment, packaging technology, package design and portion sizes; and efforts focused on identifying opportunities to transform, grow and broaden our product portfolio, including by developing products with improved nutrition profiles that reduce sodium, saturated fat or added sugars, including through the use of sweetener alternatives and flavor modifiers and innovation in existing sweeteners, and by offering more options with whole grains, fruits and vegetables. our research centers are located around the world, including in brazil, china, germany, india, mexico, russia, the united arab emirates, the united kingdom and the united states, and leverage nutrition science, food science, engineering and consumer insights to meet our strategy to continue to develop nutritious, convenient beverages, foods and snacks. in 2015 , we continued to refine our beverage, food and snack portfolio to meet changing consumer demands by developing a broader portfolio of product choices, including: launching beverage options that contain no high fructose corn syrup and are made with natural flavors; building on our important nutrition platforms and brands quaker (grains), tropicana (fruits and vegetables), gatorade (sports nutrition for athletes) and naked juice (juices and smoothies); expanding our whole grain products globally; and expanding our portfolio of nutritious products in growing categories, such as dairy, hummus and other refrigerated dips, and baked grain snacks. we also continued to develop and implement new technologies to enhance the quality and value of our current and future products. in addition, we continued to make investments to reduce our impact on the environment, including: efforts to conserve raw materials and energy, such as by working to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions across our global businesses, by helping to protect and conserve 7 table of contents global water supplies especially in water-stressed areas (including conserving water within our operations and promoting the reduction of water use in our agricultural supply chain), and by incorporating into our operations improvements in the sustainability and resources of our agricultural supply chain; efforts to reduce waste generated by our operations and disposed of in landfills; efforts to recycle containers; efforts to use renewable resources; and efforts to optimize package technology and design to make our packaging increasingly sustainable with lower environmental impact. research and development costs were $ 754 million , $718 million and $ 665 million in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses. consumer research is excluded from such research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. regulatory environment and environmental compliance the conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, content, quality and safety of our products, occupational health and safety practices, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the united states in markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. it is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. we are required to comply with a variety of u.s. laws and regulations, including but not limited to: the federal food, drug and cosmetic act and various state laws governing food safety; the food safety modernization act; the occupational safety and health act; the clean air act; the clean water act; the resource conservation and recovery act; the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act; the federal motor carrier safety act; the lanham act; various federal and state laws and regulations governing competition and trade practices; various federal and state laws and regulations governing our employment practices, including those related to equal employment opportunity, such as the equal employment opportunity act and the national labor relations act; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations; and laws regulating the sale of certain of our products in schools. in our business dealings, we are also required to comply with the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and the trade sanctions reform and export enhancement act. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including state consumer protection laws such as proposition 65 in california, which requires that, unless a safe harbor level exists and has been met, a specific warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the state of california as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. we are also subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside the united states, including but not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, occupational health and safety, competition, anti-corruption and data privacy. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. we rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. certain jurisdictions in which our products are sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, taxes, labeling requirements or other limitations on, or regulations pertaining to, the sale of certain of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products, including certain of our products that contain added sugars, sodium or saturated fat, exceed a specified caloric content, or include specified ingredients such as caffeine. for example, taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages were imposed in mexico and berkeley, california; the u.s. food and drug administration is considering requiring nutrition labels to include information about added sugars; and brazil and vermont have enacted legislation requiring labeling of products that contain genetically modified 8 table of contents ingredients. in addition, a number of other jurisdictions in the united states and outside the united states are considering similar measures. regulators may also restrict the use of benefit programs, such as the supplemental nutrition assistance program, to purchase certain beverages and foods. in addition, legislation has been enacted in certain u.s. states and in certain other countries where our products are sold that requires collection and recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers, unless a deposit or other fee is charged. it is possible that similar or more restrictive legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. in addition, as our products are made, manufactured, distributed and sold in more than 200 countries and territories, we are subject to tax laws and regulations in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. economic and political conditions may result in changes in tax rates, and existing laws on how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings are subject to changes in interpretation and enforcement, which could affect our financial performance. the cost of compliance with such u.s. and foreign laws has not had a material financial impact on our consolidated results of operations. we are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the united states and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater discharge and air emissions. in the united states, our facilities must comply with the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the resource conservation and recovery act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, storage, release and disposal of wastes generated on-site and sent to third-party owned and operated off-site licensed facilities and our facilities outside the united states must comply with similar laws and regulations. our policy is to abide by all applicable environmental compliance requirements, and we have internal programs in place to enhance our global environmental compliance. we have made, and plan to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws. while these expenditures have not had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, changes in environmental compliance requirements, and any expenditures necessary to comply with such requirements, could affect our financial performance. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. while these environmental and indemnification obligations cannot be predicted with certainty, environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. in addition to the discussion in this section, see under item 1a. risk factors below changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. , imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. , our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold and climate change or water scarcity, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change or water scarcity, may negatively affect our business and operations or damage our reputation. the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (itra) requires disclosure of certain activities relating to iran by pepsico or its affiliates that occurred during our 2015 fiscal year. as previously disclosed, one of our foreign subsidiaries historically maintained a small office in iran, which provided sales support to independent bottlers in iran in connection with in-country sales of foreign-owned beverage brands, and which was not in contravention of any applicable u.s. sanctions laws. the office ceased all commercial activity since the enactment of itra. during our 2015 fiscal year, our foreign subsidiary received a license 9 table of contents from the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control authorizing it to engage in activities related to the winding down of the office in iran and completed the process of winding down its office. the foreign subsidiary did not engage in any activities in iran other than wind-down activities in 2015 , or have any revenues or profits attributable to activities in iran during 2015 . employees as of december 26, 2015 , we and our consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 263,000 people worldwide, including approximately 110,000 people within the united states. in certain countries, our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. we or our subsidiaries are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. we expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. we believe that relations with our employees are generally good. available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act), are also available free of charge on our internet site at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. investors should note that we currently announce material information to our investors and others using filings with the sec, press releases, public conference calls or webcasts. in addition, we have used, and intend to continue to use, these channels or our corporate website ( www.pepsico.com ) to communicate important information, including news and announcements regarding our financial performance, key personnel, our brands and our business strategy. information that we post on our corporate website could be deemed material to investors. we encourage investors, the media, our customers, consumers, business partners and others interested in us to review the information we post on our corporate website from time to time. we may from time to time update the list of channels we will use to communicate information that could be deemed material and will post information about any such change on www.pepsico.com . the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, you should carefully consider the following factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. the following information should be read together and in conjunction with forward-looking statements, item 1. business, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto. the risks below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively, and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are a global food and beverage company operating in highly competitive categories and markets and we rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to shifts in consumer trends and preferences, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are concerned with: health and wellness (including products that have less sodium, added sugars and saturated fat); convenience (including responding to changes in in-home and on-the-go consumption patterns); or the location of origin or source of the ingredients and products. our success also depends on: product quality; our ability to extend our portfolio of products in growing markets and categories; our ability to respond to cultural differences and regional consumer preferences; our ability to monitor and adjust our use of ingredients to respond to applicable local regulations; our ability to develop or acquire new products that are responsive to certain consumer preferences; our ability to develop a broader portfolio of product choices and continue to increase non-carbonated beverage offerings and other alternatives to traditional carbonated beverage offerings; our ability to develop sweetener alternatives and innovation; our ability to improve the production and packaging of our products; and our ability to respond to competitive product and pricing pressures. for example, our growth rate may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain or grow our current share of the liquid refreshment beverage market or snacks market, or if demand for our products does not grow in developing and emerging markets. in general, changes in consumption in our product categories or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. consumer preferences have been evolving, and are expected to continue to evolve, due to a variety of factors, including: the aging of the general population; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the nutrition profile of certain of our products, including their caloric content, or perceptions (whether or not valid) regarding the health effects of ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, such as 4-mei, acrylamide, artificial flavors and colors, artificial sweeteners, aspartame, caffeine, high-fructose corn syrup, saturated fat, sodium, sugar, trans fats or other product ingredients, substances or attributes, including genetically engineered ingredients; taxes or other restrictions imposed on our products; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding packaging materials, such as with respect to the environmental sustainability or chemical makeup thereof; changes in package or portion size; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns; changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; negative publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory action, litigation against us or other companies in our industry or negative or inaccurate posts or comments in the media, including social media, about us, our products or advertising campaigns and marketing programs; consumer 11 table of contents perception of social media posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; consumer perception of our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or the business practices of such parties; or a downturn in economic conditions. any of these changes may reduce consumers' willingness to purchase our products. our continued success is also dependent on our product and marketing innovation, including: maintaining a robust pipeline of new products; improving the quality of existing products; and the effectiveness of our product packaging and distribution, advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including our ability to successfully adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including through use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. although we devote significant resources to the items mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop, launch and maintain successful new products or variants of existing products in a timely manner or our ability to correctly anticipate or effectively react to changes in consumer preference or develop and effectively execute advertising and marketing campaigns that appeal to customers and consumers. our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands and may result in inventory write-offs and other costs that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our businesses are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as government entities and agencies outside the united states, including laws and regulations relating to the production, content, quality, safety, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, transportation and use of products, as well as our occupational health and safety practices. many of these laws and regulations have differing or conflicting legal standards across the various markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold and, in certain markets, such as developing and emerging markets, may be less developed or certain. in addition, these laws and regulations and related interpretations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. such changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to product labeling, advertising and marketing practices; laws regarding the import or export of our products or ingredients used in our products; laws and programs restricting the sale and advertising of certain of our products; laws and programs aimed at reducing, restricting or eliminating ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, certain of our products; laws and programs aimed at discouraging the consumption or altering the package or portion size of certain of our products, including laws imposing restrictions on the use of government funds or programs, such as the supplemental nutrition assistance program, to purchase certain of our products; increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving product claims and concerns (whether or not valid) regarding the effects on health of ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, certain of our products, including without limitation those found in energy drinks; state consumer protection laws; taxation requirements, including the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other limitations on the sale of our products; accounting rules and interpretations; competition laws; anti-corruption laws; employment laws; privacy laws; laws regulating the price we may charge for our products; laws regulating water rights and access to and use of water or utilities; and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water treatment and discharge of wastewater and air emissions. 12 table of contents the imposition by any jurisdiction in the united states or outside the united states of new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, including taxes, labeling, product or production requirements or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale or advertisement of certain of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products, may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may increase our costs or liabilities or reduce demand for our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages were imposed in mexico and berkeley, california; the u.s. food and drug administration is considering requiring nutrition labels to include information about added sugars; and brazil and vermont have enacted legislation requiring labeling of products that contain genetically modified ingredients. in addition, a number of other jurisdictions in the united states and outside the united states are considering similar measures. if one jurisdiction imposes or proposes to impose new requirements or restrictions, other jurisdictions may follow and the requirements or restrictions, or proposed requirements or restrictions, may result in adverse publicity (whether or not valid). for example, if one jurisdiction imposes a specific labeling requirement or requires a specific warning on any product that contains certain ingredients or substances, other jurisdictions may react and impose restrictions on products containing the same ingredients or substances, which may result in adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of such ingredients or substances in our products (whether or not valid). changes in regulatory requirements, and competing regulations and standards, where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, may result in higher compliance costs, capital expenditures and higher production costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, studies are underway by third parties to assess the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, such as 4-mei, acrylamide, caffeine, added sugars and sodium. if consumer concerns (whether or not valid) about the health implications of consumption of such ingredients or substances present in certain of our products increase as a result of these studies, new scientific evidence, new labeling, product or production requirements or other restrictions, or for any other reason, including adverse publicity (whether or not valid) as a result of any of the foregoing, or if we are required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold, demand for our products could decline, or we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to the conduct of our businesses due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. in addition, regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or assets or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on the sales of products in our portfolio or could lead to damage to our reputation. although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, suppliers, or other third parties with whom we do business could take actions, intentional or not, that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations. violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, penalties, disgorgement of profits or activity restrictions, any of which could result in adverse publicity or affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties 13 table of contents of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. we cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold in more than 200 countries and territories. as such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of various federal, state and local governments in the united states as well as to tax laws and regulations outside the united states. the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other limitations on the sale of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products, could increase the cost of our products, reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether or not valid) or leave consumers with the perception that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if one jurisdiction imposes new or increased taxes or limitations, other jurisdictions may follow, which may result in adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of our products (whether or not valid). in addition, we are subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service (irs) and other taxing authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes both within and outside the united states. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the adoption of new or reformed tax legislation or regulation, may make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation could differ from our historical provisions and accruals, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations outside the united states generate a significant portion of our income and income tax associated with repatriation of foreign earnings to the united states could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, many of the countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, including countries in which we have significant operations, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws. changes in how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings, including changes in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other competitors. in many countries in which our products are sold, including the united states, our primary beverage competitor is the coca-cola company. we also compete with other large companies in each of the beverage, food and snack categories, including dpsg, kellogg company, the kraft heinz company, mondel z international, inc., monster beverage corporation, nestl s.a., red bull gmbh and snyder's-lance, inc. our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition, taste, price, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness. if we are unable to effectively promote our 14 table of contents existing products or introduce new products, if our advertising or marketing campaigns are not effective or if we are otherwise unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to grow or maintain sales, gross margins or category share in the global market or in various local markets or we may need to increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. our operations outside of the united states, particularly in mexico, russia, canada, the united kingdom and brazil, contribute significantly to our revenue and profitability, and we believe that these countries and other developing and emerging markets, including china and india, present important future growth opportunities for us. however, there can be no assurance that our existing products, variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, distribute or sell will be accepted or be successful in any particular developing or emerging market, due to local or global competition, product price, cultural differences, consumer preferences or otherwise. the following factors could reduce demand for our products in such developing and emerging markets: unstable economic, political or social conditions, acts of war, terrorist acts, and civil unrest in certain of these markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, including russia, ukraine, brazil and the middle east; increased competition; volatility in the economic growth of certain of these markets and the related impact on developed countries who export to these markets; our inability to acquire businesses, form strategic business alliances or to make necessary infrastructure investments; our inability to complete divestitures or refranchisings; imposition of new or increased labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions; imposition of new or increased sanctions against, or other regulations restricting contact with, certain countries in these markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, such as russia, or imposition of new or increased sanctions against u.s. multinational corporations operating in these markets; foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets or the assets of our suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; government-mandated closure, or threatened closure, of our operations or the operations of our suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; restrictions on the import or export of our products or ingredients or substances used in our products; regulations on the repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the united states; highly inflationary currency, devaluation or fluctuation, such as the devaluation of the russian ruble, venezuelan bolivar, mexican peso, euro, brazilian real and the canadian dollar; regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions, which result in significant cash balances in foreign countries, from time to time, or could significantly affect our ability to effectively manage our operations in certain of these markets and could result in the deconsolidation of such businesses, such as the deconsolidation of our venezuelan businesses effective as of the end of the third quarter of 2015; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems; increased costs of doing business due to compliance with complex foreign and united states laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and the trade sanctions reform and export enhancement act; and adverse consequences, such as the assessment of fines or penalties, for any failure to comply with these laws and regulations. if we are unable to expand our businesses in developing and emerging markets, effectively operate, or manage the risks associated with operating, in these markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect from our investments in these markets, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 15 table of contents unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of the countries in which we operate have experienced and continue to experience unfavorable economic conditions. our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by these unfavorable economic conditions, including: adverse changes in interest rates, tax laws or tax rates; volatile commodity markets, including speculative influences; highly inflationary currency, devaluation or fluctuation; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace due to legislation or economic conditions; the effects of government initiatives, including austerity or stimulus measures, to manage economic conditions and any changes to or cessation of such initiatives; the effects of any default by or deterioration in the credit worthiness of the countries in which our products are sold or of countries that may then impact countries in which our products are sold; reduced demand for our products resulting from volatility in general global economic conditions or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other lower-cost products, or to less profitable channels; or a decrease in the fair value of pension or post-retirement assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension or post-retirement plans. in addition, we cannot predict how current or future economic conditions will affect our customers, consumers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties and any negative impact on any of the foregoing may also have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including u.s. and non-u.s. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks and other financial institutions, may be exposed to a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks as a result of unfavorable economic conditions, changing regulatory requirements or other factors beyond our control. a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a major financial institution, or changes in the regulatory environment, may limit the ability or willingness of financial institutions to enter into financial transactions with us, including to provide banking or related cash management services, or to extend credit on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all; may leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or exposed to certain currencies or price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials; or may result in a decline in the market value of our investments in debt securities, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. we and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business. the principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. we also use water in the manufacturing of our products. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including pet and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities for our businesses due to their use in our facilities and the vehicles delivering our products. some of these raw materials and supplies are sourced from countries experiencing civil unrest, political instability or unfavorable economic conditions, and some are available from a limited number of suppliers or are in short supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. the raw materials and energy, including fuel, that we use for the manufacturing, production and distribution of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by many factors, including changes in global 16 table of contents supply and demand, weather conditions, disease or pests, agricultural uncertainty, health epidemics or pandemics, governmental incentives and controls, political uncertainties, governmental instability or currency exchange rates. shortage of some of these raw materials and other supplies, sustained interruption in their supply or an increase in their costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivatives. if commodity price changes result in unexpected or significant increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our product prices or effectively hedge against commodity price increases to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue, margins and operating results. in addition, certain of the derivatives used to hedge price risk do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. water is also a limited resource in many parts of the world. the lack of available water of acceptable quality and increasing pressure to conserve water in areas of scarcity and stress may lead to: supply chain disruption, adverse effects on our operations, higher compliance costs, capital expenditures (including additional investments in the development of technologies to enhance water efficiency and reduce water consumption), higher production costs, the cessation of operations at, or relocation of, our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, or damage to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity initiatives or global operating model could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our future success and earnings growth depend in part on our ability to continue to reduce costs and improve efficiencies. our productivity initiatives help support our growth initiatives and contribute to our results of operations. we continue to implement strategic plans that we believe will position our business for future success and long-term sustainable growth by allowing us to achieve a lower cost structure and operate more efficiently in the highly competitive beverage, food and snack categories and markets. we are also continuing to implement our global operating model to improve efficiency, decision making, innovation and brand management across the global pepsico organization to enable us to compete effectively. further, in order to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts and our global operating model, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. some of these measures could yield unintended consequences, such as business disruptions, distraction of management and employees, reduced employee morale and productivity, and unexpected additional employee attrition, including the inability to attract or retain key personnel. it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plans, including to effectively manage personnel adjustments and transitions resulting from these initiatives and increased competition for employees with the skills necessary to implement our plans. if we are unable to successfully implement our productivity initiatives and global operating model as planned, fail to implement these initiatives as timely as we anticipate, do not achieve expected savings as a result of these initiatives or incur higher than expected or unanticipated costs in implementing these initiatives, or fail to identify and implement additional productivity opportunities in the future, or fail to successfully manage business disruptions or unexpected employee consequences on our workforce, morale or productivity, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 table of contents business disruptions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability, and that of our suppliers and other third parties, including our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint venture partners, independent distributors and customers, to make, manufacture, transport, distribute and sell products in our portfolio is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their operations due to any of the following factors could impair the ability to make, manufacture, transport, distribute or sell products in our portfolio: adverse weather conditions or natural disaster, such as a hurricane, earthquake or flooding; government action; economic or political uncertainties or instability in countries in which such products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, which may also affect our ability to protect the security of our assets and employees; fire; terrorism; outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; food safety warnings or recalls, whether related to products in our portfolio or otherwise; health epidemics or pandemics; unplanned delays or unexpected problems associated with repairs or enhancements of facilities in which such products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold; cyber incidents; industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; telecommunications failures; power or water shortages; strikes and other labor disputes; or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and other third parties. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our operations. product contamination or tampering or issues or concerns with respect to product quality, safety and integrity could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations (whether or not valid) of product quality issues, mislabeling, misbranding, spoilage, allergens or contamination may reduce demand for products in our portfolio, cause production and delivery disruptions or increase costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the products in our portfolio are mislabeled or become unfit for consumption or cause injury, illness or death, or if appropriate resources are not devoted to product quality and safety (particularly as we expand our portfolio into new categories) or to comply with changing food safety requirements, products in our portfolio may be subject to a product recall and/or be subject to liability or government action, which could result in payment of damages or fines, cause certain products in our portfolio to be unavailable for a period of time or result in adverse publicity, which could reduce consumer demand and brand equity. our business could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in product quality, safety and integrity generally, even if such loss of confidence is unrelated to products in our portfolio. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, if we do not have adequate insurance, if we do not have contractual indemnification from suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or if indemnification is not available, the liability relating to such product claims or disruption as a result of recall efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are a leading global beverage, food and snack company with brands that are respected household names throughout the world. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. our reputation or brand image could be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental practices for all of our operations and activities, including with respect to human rights and workplace safety, or failure 18 table of contents to require our suppliers or other third parties to do so; the failure to achieve our goals of reducing sodium, added sugars and saturated fat in certain products and of growing our portfolio of product choices; the failure to achieve our other sustainability goals or to be perceived as appropriately addressing matters of social responsibility; health concerns (whether or not valid) about our products or particular ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, our products, including concerns regarding whether certain of our products contribute to obesity; the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes, labeling requirements or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale, display or advertising of our products; any failure to comply, or perception of a failure to comply, with our policies and goals, including those regarding advertising to children and reducing calorie consumption from sugar-sweetened beverages; our research and development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, water, energy use and waste management or any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment; the practices of our employees, agents, customers, distributors, suppliers, bottlers, joint venture partners or other third parties with respect to any of the foregoing, actual or perceived; consumer perception of our advertising campaigns or marketing programs; consumer perception of our use of social media; or our responses to any of the foregoing or negative publicity as a result of any of the foregoing. in addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, without limitation, anti-corruption laws, competition laws and tax laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. in the event that our employees engage in improper activities, we may be subject to enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences, which may cause us to suffer damage to our reputation in the united states or abroad. failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. in addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and demand for water continues to rise. our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use. further, the popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. as a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us, our products, policies, practices or advertising campaigns and marketing programs, our use of social media or of posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, consumer perception of any of the foregoing, or failure by us to respond effectively to any of the foregoing, may also generate adverse publicity (whether or not valid) that could damage our reputation. damage to our reputation or brand image or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or manage divestitures or refranchisings, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, refranchisings and other strategic transactions. potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things: our ability to realize the full extent of the expected returns, benefits, cost savings or synergies as a result of a transaction, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with a transaction; and diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations. with respect to acquisitions, the following factors also pose potential risks: our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the acquired company's 19 table of contents manufacturing, distribution, sales, accounting, financial reporting and administrative support activities and information technology systems with our company; our ability to successfully operate in new categories or territories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting, environmental compliance, health and safety compliance and compliance with other regulations), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between us and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures and avoiding increased operating expenses; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition; and other unanticipated problems or liabilities, such as contingent liabilities and litigation. with respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. business decisions or other actions or omissions of our joint venture partners may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us or otherwise damage our reputation and brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the united states increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the united states, including fluctuations in exchange rates and compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, and laws and regulations outside the united states. with respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we may not be able to complete such transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all and may fail to achieve the anticipated benefits or cost savings from the divestiture or refranchising. further, as divestitures and refranchisings may reduce our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain may adversely impact our sales or business performance. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, or if a divestiture or refranchising is not successfully completed or managed or does not result in the benefits or cost savings we expect, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. a change in our estimates and underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses could result in an impairment charge, which could materially affect our results of operations. we conduct impairment tests on various components of our portfolio annually, during our third quarter, or more frequently, if circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or that an other-than-temporary impairment exists. any changes in our estimates or underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our divisions or in determining the fair value of any such division, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets, could adversely affect our results of operations. factors that could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: significant negative economic or industry trends or competitive operating conditions, significant changes in the nature and timing of decisions regarding assets or markets that do not perform consistent with our expectations, including factors we use to estimate future levels of sales, operating profit or cash flows. future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. 20 table of contents if we are unable to recruit, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our continued growth requires us to recruit, hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. we compete to recruit and hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. our employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies and our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to retain, develop and motivate highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions, including the chief executive officer, or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage or result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. any of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the loss of any key customer or changes to the retail landscape could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including wal-mart, to compete effectively. the loss of any of our key customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, our industry has been affected by changes to the retail landscape, including increased consolidation of retail ownership, particularly in north america and europe, resulting in large retailers with increased purchasing power, which may impact our ability to compete in these areas. such retailers may demand improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks, other distribution channels such as e-commerce, or private label brands, or if we are unable to develop successful relationships with existing and new e-commerce retailers, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. failure to appropriately respond to any such actions, to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers or to adapt to the rapidly changing retail and e-commerce landscapes could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space and product availability at our retailers, adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow our share of sales or volume, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, if we are unable to resolve a dispute with any of our key customers, or if there is a change in the business condition (financial or otherwise) of any of our key customers, even if unrelated to us, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings. we expect to maintain tier 1 commercial paper access, which we believe will facilitate appropriate financial flexibility and ready access to global credit markets at favorable interest rates. any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, whether as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our control, could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us, or at all. further, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade. an increase in our borrowing costs, limitations on our ability to access the global 21 table of contents capital and credit markets or a reduction in our liquidity could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against, or effectively respond to, cyberattacks or other cyber incidents or if our information systems, or those of our customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, are otherwise disrupted. we depend on information technology, including public websites and cloud-based services, for many activities important to our business, including: to interface with our customers and consumers; to engage in digital marketing activities; to enable and improve the effectiveness of our operations; to order and manage materials from suppliers; to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency; to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements; to collect and store sensitive data and confidential information; to communicate electronically among our global operations and with our employees and the employees of our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint ventures, suppliers and other third parties; and to communicate with our investors, customers and consumers. as with other global companies, we are regularly subject to cyberattacks. attempted cyberattacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including criminal hackers, hacktivists and state-sponsored institutions) and expertise. to date, no cyberattack or other cyber incident has had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and maintain our information technology infrastructure, including monitoring networks and systems, upgrading our security policies and the skills and training of our employees, and requiring our third-party service providers, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties to do the same, if we or they fail to timely identify or appropriately respond to cyberattacks or other cyber incidents, or if our information systems are damaged, compromised, destroyed or shut down (whether as a result of natural disasters, fires, power outages, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events, network outages, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, technology development defects, user errors, or from deliberate cyberattacks such as malicious or disruptive software, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering, hackers or otherwise), our business could be disrupted and we could, among other things, be subject to: transaction errors; processing inefficiencies; the loss of, or failure to attract new, customers and consumers; the loss of revenues from unauthorized use, acquisition or disclosure of, or access to, confidential information; the loss of, or damage to, intellectual property or trade secrets, including the loss or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive data or other assets; damage to our reputation; litigation; regulatory enforcement actions; violation of data privacy, security or other laws and regulations; and remediation costs. further, our information systems and the information stored therein could be compromised by, and we could experience similar adverse consequences due to, unauthorized outside parties' intent on accessing or extracting sensitive data or confidential information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes (or demonstrating an ability to do so) or by inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, agents or third parties. similar risks exist with respect to the third-party vendors that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors. while we currently maintain insurance coverage that, subject to its terms and conditions, is intended to address certain aspects of cyber incidents, network failures and data privacy-related concerns, this insurance coverage may not, depending on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding an incident, cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise from an incident, or the damage to our reputation or brands that may result from an incident. 22 table of contents if we are not able to successfully implement shared services or utilize information technology systems and networks effectively, our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted. we have entered into agreements with third-party service providers to share certain information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and may enter into agreements for shared services in other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. in addition, we utilize cloud-based services and systems and networks managed by third-party vendors to process, transmit and store information and to conduct certain of our business activities and transactions with employees, customers, consumers and other third parties. if any of these third-party service providers or vendors do not perform effectively, or if we fail to adequately monitor their performance, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings or we may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers and our reputation could be harmed. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breaches or otherwise, effects on financial reporting, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation, which could have a negative impact on employee morale. we continue on our multi-year business transformation initiative to migrate certain of our systems, including our financial processing systems, to enterprise-wide systems solutions. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently, and remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers or consumers. in addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers or consumers and revenue. fluctuations in exchange rates impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the united states, where the functional currency is other than the u.s. dollar, are translated into u.s. dollars. our operations outside of the united states, particularly in mexico, russia, canada, the united kingdom and brazil, generate a significant portion of our net revenue. in addition, we purchase many of the ingredients, raw materials and commodities used in our business in numerous markets and in numerous currencies. fluctuations in exchange rates, including as a result of currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions, have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. climate change or water scarcity, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change or water scarcity, may negatively affect our business and operations or damage our reputation. there is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, potatoes and various fruits. as demand for water access continues to increase around the world, we may be subject to decreased availability of water, deteriorated quality of water or less favorable pricing for water, which could adversely impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. the effects of climate change may also exacerbate challenges regarding the availability and quality of water. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. 23 table of contents the increasing concern over climate change may result in new or increased regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. in the event that such regulation is more stringent than current regulatory obligations or the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor and improve our energy efficiency and water conservation, we may experience disruptions in, or significant increases in our costs of, operation and delivery and we may be required to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. as a result, the effects of climate change or water scarcity could negatively affect our business and operations. in addition, any perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning climate change or water scarcity could result in adverse publicity and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. there is also increased public focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, on these and other environmental sustainability matters, including deforestation and land use. our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to our impact on the environment. a portion of our workforce belongs to unions. failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages, could cause our business to suffer. many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. strikes or work stoppages or other business interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could impair manufacturing and distribution of our products or result in a loss of sales, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. the terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new collective bargaining agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency or to adapt to changing business needs or strategy. if we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the value of our products or brands could be reduced, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets that are important to our business and relate to a variety of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, if, in the course of developing new products or improving the quality of existing products, we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, such finding could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations and may limit our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products. 24 table of contents potential liabilities and costs from litigation or legal proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including but not limited to litigation related to our advertising, marketing or commercial practices, product labels, claims and ingredients, intellectual property rights and environmental, employment and insurance matters. we evaluate legal claims to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses and establish reserves as appropriate. litigation is inherently uncertain and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in litigation, or that our assessment of the materiality of these matters and the likely outcome or potential losses and established reserves will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such litigation. in the event that management's assessment of claims and proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. defending ourselves from claims, including non-meritorious claims, may also require us to incur significant expense and devote significant resources, and may generate adverse publicity that may damage our reputation or brand image, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock. many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock. such factors, some of which are beyond our control, may include, but are not limited to: unfavorable economic conditions; changes in financial or tax reporting and changes in accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results; investor perceptions of our business, strategies and performance or those of our competitors; actions by shareholders or others seeking to influence our business strategies; speculation by the media or investment community regarding our business, strategies and performance or those of our competitors; trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock; changes in our credit ratings; and the impact of our share repurchase programs or dividend policy. in addition, corporate actions, such as those we may or may not take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure and our strategy, including as a result of business, legal, regulatory and tax considerations, may not have the impact we intend and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. the above factors, as well as other risks included in this item 1a. risk factors, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 127 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks.risk factors 10 risk factors and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business our business risks. investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all-inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance. part i item 1. business. when used in this report, the terms we, us, our, pepsico and the company mean pepsico, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively. certain terms used in this annual report on form 10-k are defined in the glossary included in item 7. of this report. company overview we were incorporated in delaware in 1919 and reincorporated in north carolina in 1986. we are a leading global food and beverage company with a complementary portfolio of enjoyable brands, including frito-lay, gatorade, pepsi-cola, quaker and tropicana. through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third parties, we make, market, distribute and sell a wide variety of convenient and enjoyable beverages, foods and snacks, serving customers and consumers in more than 200 countries and territories. our operations we are organized into six reportable segments (also referred to as divisions), as follows: 1) frito-lay north america (flna), which includes our branded food and snack businesses in the united states and canada; 2) quaker foods north america (qfna), which includes our cereal, rice, pasta and other branded food businesses in the united states and canada; 3) north america beverages (nab), which includes our beverage businesses in the united states and canada; 4) latin america, which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in latin america; 5) europe sub-saharan africa (essa), which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in europe and sub-saharan africa; and 2 table of contents 6) asia, middle east and north africa (amena), which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in asia, middle east and north africa. our segment net revenue (in millions) and contributions to consolidated net revenue for each of the last three fiscal years were as follows: net revenue % of total net revenue 2016 (a) 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 flna $ 15,549 $ 14,782 $ 14,502 25 % 23 % 22 % qfna 2,564 2,543 2,568 4 4 4 nab 21,312 20,618 20,171 34 33 30 latin america 6,820 8,228 9,425 11 13 14 essa 10,216 10,510 13,399 16 17 20 amena 6,338 6,375 6,618 10 10 10 $ 62,799 $ 63,056 $ 66,683 100 % 100 % 100 % (a) our fiscal 2016 results include an extra week of results (53 rd reporting week). the 53 rd reporting week increased 2016 net revenue by $657 million, including $294 million in our flna segment, $43 million in our qfna segment, $300 million in our nab segment and $20 million in our essa segment. see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and geographic areas. see also item 1a. risk factors below for a discussion of certain risks associated with our operations, including outside the united states. frito-lay north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, flna makes, markets, distributes and sells branded snack foods. these foods include lay's potato chips, doritos tortilla chips, cheetos cheese-flavored snacks, tostitos tortilla chips, branded dips, fritos corn chips, ruffles potato chips and santitas tortilla chips. flna's branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. in addition, flna's joint venture with strauss group makes, markets, distributes and sells sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. quaker foods north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, qfna makes, markets, distributes and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. qfna's products include quaker oatmeal, aunt jemima mixes and syrups, quaker chewy granola bars, cap'n crunch cereal, quaker grits, life cereal, rice-a-roni side dishes, quaker rice cakes, quaker simply granola and quaker oat squares. these branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. north america beverages either independently or in conjunction with third parties, nab makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, gatorade, mountain dew, aquafina, diet pepsi, diet mountain dew, tropicana pure premium, mist twst and mug. nab also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea and coffee products through joint ventures with unilever (under the lipton brand name) and starbucks, respectively. further, nab manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from dr pepper snapple group, inc. (dpsg), including dr pepper, crush and schweppes, and certain juice brands licensed from dole food company, inc. (dole) and ocean spray cranberries, inc. (ocean spray). nab operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities and sells branded finished goods directly to independent distributors and retailers. nab also sells concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized and independent bottlers, who in turn sell our branded finished goods to independent distributors and retailers in certain markets. 3 table of contents latin america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, latin america makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of snack food brands including doritos, cheetos, marias gamesa, lay's, ruffles, emperador, saladitas, rosquinhas mabel, sabritas and tostitos, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks. latin america also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, 7up, gatorade, toddy, mirinda, manzanita sol, h2oh! and diet pepsi. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. latin america also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for information about the deconsolidation of our venezuelan subsidiaries, which was effective as of the end of the third quarter of 2015. europe sub-saharan africa either independently or in conjunction with third parties, essa makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including lay's, walkers, doritos, cheetos and ruffles, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. essa also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, pepsi max, 7up, mirinda, diet pepsi and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. in certain markets, however, essa operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. essa also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). in addition, essa makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading dairy products including chudo, agusha and domik v derevne. asia, middle east and north africa either independently or in conjunction with third parties, amena makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including lay's, kurkure, chipsy, cheetos, doritos and crunchy through consolidated businesses, as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. further, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, amena makes, markets, distributes and sells many quaker-branded cereals and snacks. amena also makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, mirinda, 7up, aquafina, mountain dew, and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. in certain markets, however, amena operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. amena also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). further, we license the tropicana brand for use in china on co-branded juice products in connection with a strategic alliance with tingyi (cayman islands) holding corp. (tingyi). our distribution network our products are brought to market through direct-store-delivery (dsd), customer warehouse and distributor networks. the distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. direct-store-delivery we, our independent bottlers and our distributors operate dsd systems that deliver beverages, foods and snacks directly to retail stores where the products are merchandised by our employees or our independent 4 table of contents bottlers. dsd enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. dsd is especially well-suited to products that are restocked often and respond to in-store promotion and merchandising. customer warehouse some of our products are delivered from our manufacturing plants and warehouses to customer warehouses. these less costly systems generally work best for products that are less fragile and perishable, and have lower turnover. distributor networks we distribute many of our products through third-party distributors. third-party distributors are particularly effective when greater distribution reach can be achieved by including a wide range of products on the delivery vehicles. for example, our foodservice and vending business distributes beverages, foods and snacks to restaurants, businesses, schools and stadiums through third-party foodservice and vending distributors and operators. ingredients and other supplies the principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit, oranges and other fruits, oats, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. we also use water in the manufacturing of our products. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (pet) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel, electricity and natural gas are also important commodities for our business due to their use in our and our business partners' facilities and the vehicles delivering our products. we employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages that would prevent us from meeting our requirements. many of these ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures. in addition, risk to our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. when prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. in addition, we continue to make investments to improve the sustainability and resources of our agricultural supply chain, including by developing our initiative to advance sustainable farming practices by our suppliers and expanding it globally. see note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our exposure to commodity costs. our brands and intellectual property rights we own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including agusha, amp energy, aquafina, aquafina flavorsplash, aunt jemima, cap'n crunch, cheetos, chester's, chipsy, chokis, chudo, cracker jack, crunchy, diet mist twst, diet mountain dew, diet mug, diet pepsi, diet 7up (outside the united states), domik v derevne, doritos, duyvis, elma chips, emperador, frito-lay, fritos, fruktovy sad, frustyle, g series, g2, gatorade, grandma's, h2oh!, imunele, izze, j-7 tonus, kas, kevita, kurkure, lay's, life, lifewtr, lifewater, lubimy, manzanita sol, marias gamesa, matutano, mirinda, miss vickie's, mist twst, mother's, mountain dew, mountain dew code red, mountain dew kickstart, mug, munchies, naked, near east, o.n.e., paso de los toros, pasta roni, pepsi, pepsi max, pepsi next, pepsi zero sugar, propel, quaker, quaker chewy, rice-a-roni, rold gold, rosquinhas mabel, ruffles, sabritas, sakata, saladitas, sandora, santitas, 7up (outside the united states), 7up free (outside the united states), simba, smartfood, smith's, snack a jacks, sobe, sobe lifewater, sonric's, stacy's, sting, sunchips, toddy, toddynho, tostitos, trop 50, tropicana, tropicana farmstand, tropicana pure premium, tropicana 5 table of contents twister, v water, vesely molochnik, walkers and ya. we also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products in certain markets, including dole and ocean spray. we also distribute rockstar energy drinks, muscle milk protein shakes and various dpsg brands, including dr pepper in certain markets, crush and schweppes. joint ventures in which we have an ownership interest either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as lipton, sabra and starbucks. trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. we have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. in addition, we license the use of our trademarks on merchandise that is sold at retail, which enhances brand awareness. we either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to certain of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. some of these patents are licensed to others. seasonality our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. for instance, our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food and dairy sales are higher in the cooler months. weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. however, taken as a whole, seasonality has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial results. our customers our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. we normally grant our independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. these arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality. we also grant distribution rights to our independent bottlers for certain beverage products bearing our trademarks for specified geographic areas. we rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our products to the consumer. for our independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include volume-based rebates, product placement fees, promotions and displays. for our independent bottlers, these incentives are referred to as bottler funding and are negotiated annually with each bottler to support a variety of trade and consumer programs, such as consumer incentives, advertising support, new product support, and vending and cooler equipment placement. consumer incentives include coupons, pricing discounts and promotions, and other promotional offers. advertising support is directed at advertising programs and supporting independent bottler media. new product support includes targeted consumer and retailer incentives and direct marketplace support, such as point-of-purchase materials, product placement fees, media and advertising. vending and cooler equipment placement programs support the acquisition and placement of vending machines and cooler equipment. the nature and type of programs vary annually. changes to the retail landscape, including increased consolidation of retail ownership, and the current economic environment continue to increase the importance of major customers. in 2016 , sales to wal-mart stores, inc. (wal-mart), including sam's club (sam's), represented approximately 13% of our total net revenue. our top five retail customers represented approximately 32% of our 2016 net revenue in north america, with wal-mart (including sam's) representing approximately 18% . these percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers, which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. 6 table of contents see off-balance-sheet arrangements in our financial results our liquidity and capital resources in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for more information on our independent bottlers. our competition our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers, economy brands and other competitors. in many countries in which our products are sold, including the united states, the coca-cola company is our primary beverage competitor. other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, dpsg, kellogg company, the kraft heinz company, mondel z international, inc., monster beverage corporation, nestl s.a., red bull gmbh and snyder's-lance, inc. many of our food and snack products hold significant leadership positions in the food and snack industry in the united states and worldwide. in 2016 , we and the coca-cola company represented approximately 24% and 20%, respectively, of the u.s. liquid refreshment beverage category by estimated retail sales in measured channels, according to information resources, inc. however, the coca-cola company has significant carbonated soft drink (csd) share advantage in many markets outside the united states. our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition and loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness. success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, effective introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging, pricing, increased efficiency in production techniques, new vending and dispensing equipment and brand and trademark development and protection. we believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allows us to compete effectively. research and development we engage in a variety of research and development activities and invest in innovation globally with the goal of meeting changing consumer demands and preferences and accelerating sustainable growth. these activities principally involve: development of new ingredients, flavors and products; reformulation and improvement in the quality and appeal of existing products; improvement and modernization of manufacturing processes, including cost reduction; improvements in product quality, safety and integrity; development of, and improvements in, dispensing equipment, packaging technology, package design and portion sizes; efforts focused on identifying opportunities to transform, grow and broaden our product portfolio, including by developing products with improved nutrition profiles that reduce sodium, saturated fat or added sugars, including through the use of sweetener alternatives and flavor modifiers and innovation in existing sweeteners, and by offering more products with positive nutrition including whole grains, fruits and vegetables, dairy, protein and hydration; and improvements in energy efficiency and efforts focused on reducing our impact on the environment. our research centers are located around the world, including in brazil, china, india, mexico, russia, the united arab emirates, the united kingdom and the united states, and leverage nutrition science, food science, engineering and consumer insights to meet our strategy to continue to develop nutritious and convenient beverages, foods and snacks. in 2016 , we continued to refine our beverage, food and snack portfolio to meet changing consumer demands by reducing added sugars in many of our beverages and saturated fat and sodium in many of our foods and snacks, and by developing a broader portfolio of product choices, including: continuing to expand our 7 table of contents beverage options that contain no high-fructose corn syrup and that are made with natural flavors; launching a state-of-the-art food and beverage healthy vending initiative to increase the availability of convenient, affordable and enjoyable nutrition; further expanding our portfolio of nutritious products by building on our important nutrition platforms and brands quaker (grains), tropicana (fruits and vegetables), gatorade (sports nutrition for athletes) and naked juice (juices and smoothies); further expanding our whole grain products globally; and further expanding our portfolio of nutritious products in growing categories, such as dairy, hummus and other refrigerated dips, and baked grain snacks. in addition, we continued to make investments to reduce our impact on the environment, including: efforts to conserve raw materials and energy, such as by working to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions across our global businesses, by helping to protect and conserve global water supplies especially in high water-risk areas (including conserving water within our operations and promoting the efficient use of water use in our agricultural supply chain), and by incorporating into our operations, improvements in the sustainability and resources of our agricultural supply chain; efforts to reduce waste generated by our operations and disposed of in landfills; efforts to support increased packaging recovery and recycling rates; efforts to increase energy efficiency, including the increased use of renewable energy and resources; efforts to support sustainable agriculture by expanding best practices with our growers and suppliers; and efforts to optimize packaging technology and design to make our packaging increasingly recoverable or recyclable with lower environmental impact. research and development costs were $760 million , $754 million and $ 718 million in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively, and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses. consumer research is excluded from such research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. regulatory matters the conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, content, quality, safety, transportation, disposal, recycling and use of our products, as well as our occupational health and safety practices, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in the more than 200 other countries and territories in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. it is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. the u.s. laws and regulations that we are subject to include: the federal food, drug and cosmetic act and various state laws governing food safety; the food safety modernization act; the occupational safety and health act; various federal, state and local environmental protection laws, as discussed below; the federal motor carrier safety act; the federal trade commission act; the lanham act; various federal and state laws and regulations governing competition and trade practices; various federal and state laws and regulations governing our employment practices, including those related to equal employment opportunity, such as the equal employment opportunity act and the national labor relations act and those related to overtime compensation, such as the fair labor standards act; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations; and laws regulating the sale of certain of our products in schools. we are also required to comply with the foreign corrupt practices act and the trade sanctions reform and export enhancement act. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including state consumer protection laws such as proposition 65 in california, which requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the state of california as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects, unless the amount of such substance in the product is below a safe harbor level. we are also subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside the united states, including but not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, occupational health and safety, competition, anti-corruption and data privacy. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws, including the u.k. bribery act. we rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in- 8 table of contents house and outside counsel and other experts, to guide our businesses in complying with the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. in addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed, or are considering imposing, new or increased taxes on the manufacture, sale or distribution of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products. these taxes vary in scope and form: some apply to all beverages, including non-caloric beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). similarly, some measures apply a single tax rate per liquid ounce while others apply a graduated tax rate depending upon the amount of added sugar in the beverage. in addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed, or are considering imposing, product labeling or warning requirements or other limitations on the marketing or sale of certain of our products as a result of ingredients or substances contained in such products or the audience to whom products are marketed. these types of provisions have required that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns consumers to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products. it is possible that similar or more restrictive requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. regulators may also restrict consumers' ability to use benefit programs, such as the supplemental nutrition assistance program in the united states, to purchase certain beverages and foods. in addition, legislation has been enacted in certain u.s. states and in certain other countries where our products are sold that requires collection and recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers, unless a deposit, ecotax or other fee is charged. it is possible that similar or more restrictive requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. we are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the united states and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater discharge and air emissions. in the united states, our facilities must comply with the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, the compensation and liability act, the resource conservation and recovery act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, storage, release and disposal of wastes generated on-site and sent to third-party owned and operated off-site licensed facilities and our facilities outside the united states must comply with similar laws and regulations. in addition, continuing concern over climate change may result in new or increased legal and regulatory requirements (in or outside of the united states) to reduce or mitigate the potential effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. our policy is to abide by all applicable environmental laws and regulations, and we have internal programs in place with respect to our global environmental compliance. we have made, and plan to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. while these expenditures have not had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date, changes in environmental compliance requirements, and any expenditures necessary to comply with such requirements, could adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. while these environmental remediation and indemnification obligations cannot be predicted with certainty, such obligations have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. in addition to the discussion in this section, see also item 1a. risk factors. employees as of december 31, 2016 , we and our consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 264,000 people worldwide, including approximately 113,000 people within the united states. in certain countries, our 9 table of contents employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. we or our subsidiaries are party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. we expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. we believe that relations with our employees are generally good. available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act), are also available free of charge on our internet site at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. investors should note that we currently announce material information to our investors and others using filings with the sec, press releases, public conference calls, webcasts or our corporate website ( www.pepsico.com ), including news and announcements regarding our financial performance, key personnel, our brands and our business strategy. information that we post on our corporate website could be deemed material to investors. we encourage investors, the media, our customers, consumers, business partners and others interested in us to review the information we post on these channels. we may from time to time update the list of channels we will use to communicate information that could be deemed material and will post information about any such change on www.pepsico.com . the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the factors described below could occur or continue to occur and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. the risks below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may occur or become material in the future and may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our publicly traded securities. therefore, historical operating results, financial and business performance, events and trends may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results, financial and business performance, events or trends. demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively, and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are a global food and beverage company operating in highly competitive categories and markets. to generate revenues and profits, we rely on continued demand for our products and therefore must sell products that appeal to our customers and consumers. in general, changes in consumption in our product categories or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. demand for our products depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to shifts in consumer trends and preferences, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are concerned with: health and wellness (including products that have less sodium, added sugars and saturated fat); convenience 10 table of contents (including responding to changes in in-home and on-the-go consumption patterns); or the location of origin or source of the ingredients and products (including the environmental impact related to the production of our products). consumer preferences have been evolving, and are expected to continue to evolve, due to a variety of factors, including: the aging of the general population; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the nutrition profile of certain of our products, including the presence of added sugar, sodium and saturated fat in certain of our products; growing demand for organic or locally sourced ingredients, or consumer concerns or perceptions (whether or not valid) regarding the health effects of ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, such as 4-mei, acrylamide, artificial flavors and colors, artificial sweeteners, aspartame, caffeine, high-fructose corn syrup, partially hydrolyzed oils, saturated fat, sodium, sugar, trans fats or other product ingredients, substances or attributes, including genetically engineered ingredients; taxes or other restrictions, including labeling requirements, imposed on our products; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding packaging materials, such as with respect to the environmental sustainability or chemical makeup thereof; changes in package or portion size; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns; changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; negative publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory actions, litigation against us or other companies in our industry or negative or inaccurate posts or comments in the media, including social media, about us, our employees, our products or advertising campaigns and marketing programs; perception of social media posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees and executives, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; perception of our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or the business practices of such parties; product boycotts; or a downturn in economic conditions. any of these factors may reduce consumers' willingness to purchase our products and any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position and could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. demand for our products is also dependent in part on product quality, product and marketing innovation and production and distribution, including our ability to: maintain a robust pipeline of new products; improve the quality of existing products; extend our portfolio of products in growing markets and categories; respond to cultural differences and regional consumer preferences (whether through developing or acquiring new products that are responsive to such preferences); monitor and adjust our use of ingredients (including to respond to applicable regulations); develop a broader portfolio of product choices and continue to increase non-carbonated beverage offerings and other alternatives to traditional carbonated beverage offerings; develop sweetener alternatives and innovation; improve the production, packaging and distribution of our products; respond to competitive product and pricing pressures and changes in distribution channels, including in the growing e-commerce channel; and implement effective advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including successfully adapting to a rapidly changing media environment through the use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. although we devote significant resources to the items mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop, launch and maintain successful new products or variants of existing products in a timely manner (including to correctly anticipate or effectively react to changes in consumer preferences) or to develop and effectively execute advertising and marketing campaigns that appeal to customers and consumers. our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of our existing brands and may result in inventory write-offs and other costs that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 11 table of contents changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the conduct of our business is subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as government entities and agencies outside the united states, including laws and regulations relating to the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, content, quality, safety, transportation, disposal, recycling and use of our products, as well as our employment and occupational health and safety practices. in addition, in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. many of these laws and regulations have differing or conflicting legal standards across the various markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold and, in certain markets, such as developing and emerging markets, may be less developed or certain. for example, products containing genetically engineered ingredients are subject to varying regulations and restrictions in jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. in addition, these laws and regulations and related interpretations may change, sometimes dramatically and unexpectedly, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. such changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to product labeling, advertising and marketing practices; laws and treaties related to international trade, including laws regarding the import or export of our products or ingredients used in our products and tariffs; laws and programs restricting the sale and advertising of certain of our products, including restrictions on the audience to whom products are marketed; laws and programs aimed at reducing, restricting or eliminating ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, certain of our products; laws and programs aimed at discouraging the consumption or altering the package or portion size of certain of our products, including laws imposing restrictions on the use of government funds or programs, such as the supplemental nutrition assistance program in the united states, to purchase certain of our products; increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving product claims and concerns (whether or not valid) regarding the effects on health of ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, certain of our products, including without limitation those found in energy drinks; state consumer protection laws; regulatory initiatives, including the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other measures impacting the manufacture, sale or distribution of our products; accounting rules and interpretations; employment laws; privacy laws; laws regulating the price we may charge for our products; laws regulating water rights and access to and use of water or utilities; environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water treatment and discharge of wastewater and air emissions and laws relating to the disposal, recovery or recycling of our products and their packaging. changes in regulatory requirements, and competing regulations and standards, where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, may result in higher compliance costs, capital expenditures and higher production costs, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. the imposition by any jurisdiction in the united states or outside the united states of new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, including taxes, labeling, product or production requirements or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale or advertisement of certain of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products, may continue to alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may continue to increase our costs or liabilities or reduce demand for our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if one jurisdiction imposes or proposes to impose new requirements or restrictions, other jurisdictions may follow and the requirements or restrictions, or proposed requirements or restrictions, may also result in adverse publicity (whether or not valid). for example, if one jurisdiction imposes a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages or foods, or imposes a specific labeling or warning requirement, other jurisdictions may impose similar or other measures that impact the manufacture, sale or distribution of our products. the foregoing may result in decreased demand for our 12 table of contents products, adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of ingredients or substances in our products (whether or not valid). in addition, studies are underway by third parties to assess the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, such as 4-mei, acrylamide, caffeine, added sugars, saturated fat and sodium. third parties, such as the world health organization, have also published documents or studies claiming that taxes can address consumer consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and other foods high in sugar, sodium or saturated fat. if, as a result of these studies and documents or otherwise, there is an increase in consumer concerns (whether or not valid) about the health implications of consumption of our products, an increase in the number of jurisdictions that impose taxes on our products, or an increase in new labeling, product or production requirements or other restrictions on the manufacturing, sale or display of our products, demand for our products could decline, or we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, suppliers, or other third parties with whom we do business could take actions, intentional or not, that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations. violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, penalties, disgorgement of profits or activity restrictions, any of which could result in adverse publicity or affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or assets or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on the sales of products in our portfolio or could lead to damage to our reputation. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. we cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our estimates or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes aimed at our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, new or increased taxes on the manufacture, sale or distribution of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products. these taxes vary in scope and form: some apply to all beverages, including non-caloric beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). similarly, some measures apply a single tax rate per liquid ounce while others apply a graduated tax rate depending upon the amount of added sugar in the beverage. for example, effective january 2017, the city of philadelphia, pennsylvania in the united states enacted a per-ounce surcharge on all sweetened beverages (including artificially and non-caloric sweetened beverages). by contrast, the u.k. has proposed a graduated tax, in which the per-ounce tax rate is tied to the amount of added sugar present in the beverage: the higher the amount of added sugar, the higher the per-ounce tax rate. these tax measures - whatever their scope or form - could increase the cost of our products, reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity 13 table of contents (whether based in scientific fact or not ) or leave consumers with the perception (whether or not valid) that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs. such factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of our products may reduce demand for such products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, product labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of certain of our products as a result of ingredients or substances contained in such products. these types of provisions have required that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns consumers to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products. for example, in california in the united states, proposition 65 requires a specific warning on any product that contains a substance listed by the state of california as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects, unless the level of such substance in the product is below a safe harbor level. in addition, some jurisdictions, including chile and peru, have adopted labeling requirements or have begun to require color-coded labeling of certain food and beverage products where black, red, yellow and green are used to indicate various levels of a particular ingredient, such as sodium, saturated fat or sugar. in addition, a number of other jurisdictions both in and outside the united states are considering similar measures. the imposition or proposed imposition of additional product labeling or warning requirements could reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether based in scientific fact or not) or leave consumers with the perception (whether or not valid) that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs. such factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in laws and regulations relating to packaging or disposal of our products could continue to increase our costs and reduce demand for our products or otherwise have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. certain of our products are sold in packaging designed to be recoverable for recycling but not all packaging is recovered, whether due to low value, lack of infrastructure or otherwise. the united states and many other jurisdictions have imposed or are considering imposing regulations or policies designed to encourage recycling, including requiring that deposits or certain taxes or fees be charged in connection with the sale, distribution, marketing and use of certain packaging; extended producer responsibility policies which makes brand owners responsible for the costs of recycling products after consumers have used them; and adopting or extending product stewardship policies which could require brand owners to plan for and, if necessary, pay for the recycling or disposal of packaging after consumers have used them. compliance with these laws and regulations could continue to affect our costs or require changes in our distribution model, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. further, our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to packaging or disposal of our products. our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local, and private label manufacturers, economy brands and other competitors. in many countries in which our products are sold, including the united states, the coca-cola company is our primary beverage competitor. other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, dpsg, 14 table of contents kellogg company, the kraft heinz company, mondel z international, inc., monster beverage corporation, nestl s.a., red bull gmbh and snyder's-lance, inc. our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition and loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness. if we are unable to effectively promote our existing products or introduce new products, if our advertising or marketing campaigns are not effective or if we are otherwise unable to compete effectively (including in distributing our products effectively and cost efficiently through all existing and emerging channels of trade, including through e-commerce), we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or category share or we may need to increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold may be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. for example, the decision by the united kingdom to leave the european union has created uncertainty regarding how the united kingdom will interact with other european union countries following its departure and during the time leading up to its departure. in addition, many of the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, have recently held, or will hold in the near future, elections, the results of which could create uncertainty regarding how existing laws and regulations may change, including with respect to sanctions, climate change regulation, taxes, the movement of goods, services and people between countries and other matters, and could result in exchange rate fluctuation, volatility in global stock markets and global economic uncertainty. any changes in, or the imposition of new, laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations due to elections, referendums or other political conditions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets. our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in developing and emerging markets, including mexico, russia, brazil, the middle east, china and india. however, there can be no assurance that our existing products, variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, distribute or sell will be accepted or be successful in any particular developing or emerging market, due to local or global competition, product price, cultural differences, consumer preferences or otherwise. the following factors could reduce demand for our products or otherwise impede the growth of our business in developing and emerging markets: unstable economic, political or social conditions, acts of war, terrorist acts, and civil unrest; increased competition; volatility in the economic growth of certain of these markets and the related impact on developed countries who export to these markets; volatile oil prices and the impact on the local economy in certain of these markets; our inability to acquire businesses, form strategic business alliances or to make necessary infrastructure investments; our inability to complete divestitures or refranchisings; imposition of new or increased labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions; imposition of new or increased sanctions against, or other regulations restricting contact with, certain countries in these markets, or imposition of new or increased sanctions against u.s. multinational corporations operating in these markets; foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets or the assets of our suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; imposition of taxes on our products or the ingredients or substances used in our products; government-mandated closure, or threatened closure, of our operations or the operations of our suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners, customers or other 15 table of contents third parties; restrictions on the import or export of our products or ingredients or substances used in our products; regulations relating to the repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the united states; highly-inflationary economies, devaluation or fluctuation, such as the devaluation of the mexican peso, russian ruble, egyptian pound and the argentine peso, or demonetization of currency, such as the withdrawal in india of 500 and 1,000 rupee notes; regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions, which result in significant cash balances in foreign countries, from time to time, or could significantly affect our ability to effectively manage our operations in certain of these markets and could result in the deconsolidation of such businesses, such as the deconsolidation of our venezuelan businesses effective as of the end of the third quarter of 2015; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems; increased costs of doing business due to compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and the trade sanctions reform and export enhancement act; and adverse consequences, such as the assessment of fines or penalties, for any failure to comply with these laws and regulations. if we are unable to expand our businesses in developing and emerging markets, effectively operate, or manage the risks associated with operating, in these markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect from our investments in these markets, our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of the countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed and sold have experienced and continue to experience unfavorable economic conditions, such as recessions or economic slowdowns. our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by unfavorable economic conditions in the united states and globally, including: adverse changes in interest rates, tax laws or tax rates; volatile commodity markets, including speculative influences; highly-inflationary economies, devaluation, fluctuation or demonetization; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace due to legislation or economic conditions; the effects of government initiatives, including demonetization, austerity or stimulus measures to manage economic conditions and any changes to or cessation of such initiatives; the effects of any default by or deterioration in the credit worthiness of the countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold or of countries that may then impact countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold; reduced demand for our products resulting from volatility in general global economic conditions or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other lower-cost products, or to less profitable channels; or a decrease in the fair value of pension or post-retirement assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension or post-retirement plans. in addition, we cannot predict how current or future economic conditions will affect our customers, consumers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties and any negative impact on any of the foregoing may also have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including u.s. and non-u.s. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks and other financial institutions, may be exposed to a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks as a result of unfavorable economic conditions, changing regulatory requirements or other factors beyond our control. a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a major financial institution, or changes in the regulatory environment, may limit the ability or willingness of financial institutions to enter into financial transactions with us, including to provide banking or related cash management services, or to extend credit on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all; may leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or exposed to certain currencies or price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials; or may result in a decline in the market value of our investments in debt securities, which could have an adverse 16 table of contents impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. similar risks exist with respect to our customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors and joint venture partners and could result in their inability to obtain credit to purchase our products or to finance the manufacture and distribution of our products resulting in product delays, which could also have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against, or effectively respond to, cyberattacks or other cyber incidents or if our information systems, or those of our customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, are otherwise disrupted. we depend on information systems and technology, some of which are provided by third parties, including public websites and cloud-based services, for many activities important to our business, including: to interface with our customers and consumers; to engage in marketing activities; to enable and improve the effectiveness of our operations; to order and manage materials from suppliers; to manage inventory; to manage our facilities; to conduct research and development; to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency; to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements; to collect and store sensitive data and confidential information; to communicate electronically among our global operations and with our employees and the employees of our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint ventures, suppliers and other third parties; and to communicate with our investors. as with other global companies, we are regularly subject to cyberattacks. cyberattacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups and individuals (including criminal hackers, hacktivists, state-sponsored institutions, terrorist organizations and individuals or groups participating in organized crime) with a wide range of expertise and motives (including monetization of corporate, payment or other internal or personal data, theft of trade secrets and intellectual property for competitive advantage and leverage for political, social, economic and environmental reasons). such cyberattacks and cyber incidents can take many forms including cyber extortion, social engineering, introduction of viruses or malware, such as ransomware through phishing emails, or password theft. to date, no cyberattack or other cyber incident has to our knowledge had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and maintain our information technology infrastructure, including monitoring networks and systems, upgrading our security policies and the skills and training of our employees, and requiring our third-party service providers, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties to do the same, if we or they fail to timely identify or appropriately respond to cyberattacks or other cyber incidents, or if our or their information systems are damaged, compromised, destroyed or shut down (whether as a result of natural disasters, fires, power outages, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events, network outages, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, technology development defects, user errors, or from deliberate cyberattacks such as malicious or disruptive software, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering, hackers or otherwise), our business could be disrupted and we could, among other things, be subject to: transaction errors; processing inefficiencies; the loss of, or failure to attract new, customers and consumers; lost revenues resulting from the disruption or shutdown of computer systems or other information technology systems at our offices, plants, warehouses, distribution centers or other facilities, or the loss of a competitive advantage due to the unauthorized use, acquisition or disclosure of, or access to, confidential information; the incurrence of costs to restore data and to safeguard against future extortion attempts; the loss of, or damage to, intellectual property or trade secrets, including the loss or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive data or other assets; alteration, corruption or loss of accounting, financial or other data on which we rely for financial reporting and other purposes, which could cause delays in our financial reporting; damage to our reputation; litigation; regulatory enforcement actions or fines; violation of data privacy, security or other laws and regulations; and 17 table of contents remediation costs. further, our information systems and the information stored therein could be compromised by, and we could experience similar adverse consequences due to, unauthorized outside parties accessing or extracting sensitive data or confidential information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes (or demonstrating an ability to do so) or by inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, agents or third parties. we continue to devote significant resources to network security, backup and disaster recovery, and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security or guarantee that we will be successful in preventing or responding to every such breach or disruption. in addition, due to the constantly evolving nature of these security threats, the form and impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. similar risks exist with respect to the third-party vendors that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors. the need to coordinate with various third-party vendors may complicate our efforts to resolve any issues that may arise. as a result, we are subject to the risk that the activities associated with our third-party vendors may adversely affect our business even if the attack or breach does not directly impact our systems or information. while we currently maintain insurance coverage that, subject to its terms and conditions, is intended to address certain aspects of cyber incidents, network failures and data privacy-related concerns, this insurance coverage may not, depending on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding an incident, cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise from an incident, or the damage to our reputation or brands that may result from an incident. our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials, energy, water and other supplies. we and our business partners use various raw materials, energy, water and other supplies in our business. the principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. we also use water in the manufacturing of our products. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including pet and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel, electricity and natural gas are also important commodities for our businesses due to their use in our and our business partners' facilities and the vehicles delivering our products. some of these raw materials and supplies are sourced from countries experiencing civil unrest, political instability or unfavorable economic conditions, and some are available from a limited number of suppliers or are in short supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. the raw materials and energy, including fuel, that we use for the manufacturing, production and distribution of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by many factors, including changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions (including any potential effects of climate change), disease or pests, agricultural uncertainty, health epidemics or pandemics, governmental incentives and controls, political uncertainties, governmental instability or currency exchange rates. shortage of some of these raw materials and other supplies, sustained interruption in their supply or an increase in their costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivatives. if commodity price changes result in unexpected or significant increases in raw materials 18 table of contents and energy costs, we may be unwilling or unable to increase our product prices or unable to effectively hedge against commodity price increases to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue, margins and operating results. in addition, certain of the derivatives used to hedge price risk do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. water is also a limited resource in many parts of the world. the lack of available water of acceptable quality and increasing pressure to conserve water in areas of scarcity and stress may lead to: supply chain disruption; adverse effects on our operations; higher compliance costs; capital expenditures (including additional investments in the development of technologies to enhance water efficiency and reduce water consumption); higher production costs; the cessation of operations at, or relocation of, our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; or damage to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. business disruptions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability, and that of our suppliers and other third parties, including our bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint venture partners, distributors and customers, to make, manufacture, transport, distribute and sell products in our portfolio is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their operations due to any of the following factors could impair the ability to make, manufacture, transport, distribute or sell products in our portfolio: adverse weather conditions (including any potential effects of climate change) or natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flooding; government action; economic or political uncertainties or instability in countries in which such products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, which may also affect our ability to protect the security of our assets and employees; fire; terrorism; outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; food safety warnings or recalls, whether related to products in our portfolio or otherwise; health epidemics or pandemics; supply and commodity shortages; unplanned delays or unexpected problems associated with repairs or enhancements of facilities in which such products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold; loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites; cyber incidents, including the disruption or shutdown of computer systems or other information technology systems at our offices, plants, warehouses, distribution centers or other facilities; industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; telecommunications failures; power or water shortages; strikes and other labor disputes; or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and other third parties. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore operations. product contamination or tampering or issues or concerns with respect to product quality, safety and integrity could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations (whether or not valid) of product quality issues, mislabeling, misbranding, spoilage, allergens, adulteration or contamination with respect to products in our portfolio may reduce demand for such products, and cause production and delivery disruptions or increase costs, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the products in our portfolio are mislabeled or become unfit for consumption or cause injury, illness or death, or if appropriate resources are not devoted to product quality and safety (particularly as we expand our portfolio into new categories) or to comply with changing food safety requirements, we could decide to, or be required to, recall products in our portfolio and/or we may be subject to liability or government action, which could result in payment of damages or fines, cause 19 table of contents certain products in our portfolio to be unavailable for a period of time, result in destruction of product inventory, or result in adverse publicity (whether or not valid), which could reduce consumer demand and brand equity. moreover, even if allegations of product contamination or tampering or suggestions that our products were not fit for consumption are meritless, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against us or products in our portfolio or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. our business could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in product quality, safety and integrity generally, even if such loss of confidence is unrelated to products in our portfolio. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, if we do not have adequate insurance, if we do not have enforceable indemnification from suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or if indemnification is not available, the liability relating to such product claims or disruption as a result of recall efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are a leading global beverage, food and snack company with brands that are respected household names throughout the world. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. our reputation or brand image could be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental practices for all of our operations and activities, including with respect to human rights and workplace safety, or failure to require our suppliers or other third parties to do so; the failure to achieve our goals of reducing added sugars, sodium and saturated fat in certain of our products and of growing our portfolio of product choices; the failure to achieve our other sustainability goals or to be perceived as appropriately addressing matters of social responsibility; the failure to protect our intellectual property, including in the event our brands are used without our authorization; health concerns (whether or not valid) about our products or particular ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, our products, including concerns regarding whether certain of our products contribute to obesity; the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes, labeling requirements or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale, display or advertising of our products; any failure to comply, or perception of a failure to comply, with our policies and goals, including those regarding advertising to children and reducing calorie consumption from sugar-sweetened beverages; our research and development efforts; the recall (voluntary or otherwise) of any products in our portfolio; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, water, energy use and waste management; any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment, or perception of a failure to act responsibly with respect to water use and the environment; the practices of our employees, agents, customers, distributors, suppliers, bottlers, joint venture partners or other third parties (including others in our industry) with respect to any of the foregoing, actual or perceived; consumer perception of our industry; consumer perception of our advertising campaigns or marketing programs; consumer perception of our use of social media; consumer perception of statements made by us, our employees and executives, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties (including others in our industry); or our responses or the responses of others in our industry to any of the foregoing. in addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, without limitation, anti-corruption laws, competition laws and tax laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. in the event that our employees engage in improper activities, we may be subject to enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences, which may cause us to suffer damage to our reputation in the united states or abroad. failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. in addition, water is a limited resource in many 20 table of contents parts of the world and demand for water continues to rise. our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use. further, the popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. as a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us, our products, policies, practices or advertising campaigns and marketing programs; our use of social media or of posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; consumer perception of any of the foregoing, or failure by us to respond effectively to any of the foregoing, may also generate adverse publicity (whether or not valid) that could damage our reputation. damage to our reputation or brand image or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or effectively manage divestitures or refranchisings, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, refranchisings and other strategic transactions. potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things: our ability to realize the full extent of the expected returns, benefits, cost savings or synergies as a result of a transaction, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with a transaction; and diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations. with respect to acquisitions, the following factors also pose potential risks: our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the acquired company's manufacturing, distribution, sales, accounting, financial reporting and administrative support activities and information technology systems with our company; our ability to successfully operate in new categories or territories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting, environmental compliance, health and safety compliance and compliance with other regulations), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between us and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures and avoiding increased operating expenses; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition; and other unanticipated problems or liabilities, such as contingent liabilities and litigation. with respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. business decisions or other actions or omissions of our joint venture partners may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us or otherwise damage our reputation and brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the united states increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the united states, including fluctuations in exchange rates and compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and laws and regulations outside the united states. 21 table of contents with respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we may not be able to complete or effectively manage such transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all and may fail to achieve the anticipated benefits or cost savings from the divestiture or refranchising. further, as divestitures and refranchisings may reduce our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain may adversely impact our sales or business performance. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, or if a divestiture or refranchising is not successfully completed or managed or does not result in the benefits or cost savings we expect, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. a change in our estimates and underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses could result in an impairment charge, which could materially affect our results of operations. we conduct impairment tests on various components of our portfolio annually, during our third quarter, or more frequently, if circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or that an other-than-temporary impairment exists. any changes in our estimates or underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our divisions or in determining the fair value of any such division, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets, could adversely affect our results of operations. factors that could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: significant negative economic or industry trends or competitive operating conditions; significant macroeconomic conditions that may result in a future increase in the weighted-average cost of capital used to estimate fair value; and significant changes in the nature and timing of decisions regarding assets or markets that do not perform consistently with our expectations, including factors we use to estimate future levels of sales, operating profit or cash flows. future impairment charges could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods recognized. increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or disagreements with tax authorities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. increases in income tax rates or other changes in income tax laws in any particular jurisdiction could reduce our after-tax income from such jurisdiction. our operations outside the united states generate a significant portion of our income and income tax associated with repatriation of foreign earnings to the united states could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, many of the countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, including countries in which we have significant operations, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws. changes in how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings, including changes in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service (irs) and other taxing authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes both within and outside the united states. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the adoption of new or reformed tax legislation or regulation, may make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation could differ from our historical provisions and accruals, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 22 table of contents failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity initiatives or global operating model could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our future success and earnings growth depend, in part, on our ability to continue to reduce costs and improve efficiencies. our productivity initiatives help support our growth initiatives and contribute to our results of operations. we continue to implement strategic plans that we believe will position our business for future success and long-term sustainable growth by allowing us to achieve a lower cost structure and operate more efficiently in the highly competitive beverage, food and snack categories and markets. we are also continuing to implement our global operating model to improve efficiency, decision making, innovation and brand management across the global pepsico organization to enable us to compete more effectively. further, in order to continue to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts and our global operating model, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. some of these measures could yield unintended consequences, such as business disruptions, distraction of management and employees, reduced employee morale and productivity, and unexpected additional employee attrition, including the inability to attract or retain key personnel. it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plans, including to effectively manage personnel adjustments and transitions resulting from these initiatives and increased competition for employees with the skills necessary to implement our plans. if we are unable to successfully implement our productivity initiatives and global operating model as planned, fail to implement these initiatives as timely as we anticipate, do not achieve expected savings as a result of these initiatives or incur higher than expected or unanticipated costs in implementing these initiatives, fail to identify and implement additional productivity opportunities in the future, or fail to successfully manage business disruptions or unexpected employee consequences on our workforce, morale or productivity, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to recruit, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our continued growth requires us to recruit, hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. we compete to recruit and hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. our employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies and our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to retain, develop and motivate highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. any unplanned turnover or unsuccessful implementation of our succession plans to backfill current leadership positions, including the chief executive officer, or to hire and retain a highly skilled and diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage or result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. the loss of, or a significant reduction in sales to, any key customer or changes to the retail landscape could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including wal-mart, to compete effectively. the loss of any of our key customers or a significant reduction in sales to a key customer could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, our industry has been affected by changes to the retail landscape, including increased consolidation of retail ownership and purchasing power, particularly in north america, europe and latin america, resulting in large retailers with increased purchasing power, which may impact our ability 23 table of contents to compete in these areas. such retailers may demand improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks, other distribution channels such as e-commerce, or private label brands, or if we are unable to develop successful relationships with existing and new e-commerce retailers, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. in addition, failure to appropriately respond to any such actions, to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers or to adapt to the rapidly changing retail and e-commerce landscapes could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space and product availability at our retailers, adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow our share of sales or volume, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, if we are unable to resolve a dispute with any of our key customers, or if there is a change in the business condition (financial or otherwise) of any of our key customers, even if unrelated to us, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings. rating agencies routinely evaluate us, and their ratings of our long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our cash generating capability, levels of indebtedness, policies with respect to shareholder distributions and our financial strength generally, as well as factors beyond our control, such as the then-current state of the economy and our industry generally. any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, whether as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our control, could increase our future borrowing costs, impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all, and result in a reduction in our liquidity. we expect to maintain tier 1 commercial paper access, which we believe will facilitate appropriate financial flexibility and ready access to global credit markets at favorable interest rates. however, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade. an increase in our borrowing costs, limitations on our ability to access the global capital and credit markets or a reduction in our liquidity could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. if we are not able to successfully implement shared services or utilize information technology systems and networks effectively, our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted. we have entered into agreements with third-party service providers to utilize certain information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and may enter into agreements for shared services in other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. in addition, we utilize cloud-based services and systems and networks managed by third-party vendors to process, transmit and store information and to conduct certain of our business activities and transactions with employees, customers, consumers and other third parties. if any of these third-party service providers or vendors do not perform effectively, or if we fail to adequately monitor their performance, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings or we may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers and our reputation could be harmed. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breaches or otherwise, effects on financial reporting, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation, which could have a negative impact on employee morale. 24 table of contents we continue on our multi-year business transformation initiative to migrate certain of our systems, including our financial processing systems, to enterprise-wide systems solutions. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently, and remain in step with the changing needs of our business, which could result in the loss of customers or consumers. in addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers or consumers and revenue. fluctuations in exchange rates impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the united states, where the functional currency is other than the u.s. dollar, are translated into u.s. dollars. our operations outside of the united states, particularly in mexico, canada, russia, the united kingdom and brazil , generate a significant portion of our net revenue. in addition, we purchase many of the ingredients, raw materials and commodities used in our business in numerous markets and in numerous currencies. fluctuations in exchange rates, including as a result of currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. climate change, water scarcity or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change or water scarcity may negatively affect our business and operations or damage our reputation. there is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, potatoes and various fruits. natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain and unfavorably impact the demand for, or our consumer's ability to purchase, our products. the predicted effects of climate change may also exacerbate challenges regarding the availability and quality of water. as demand for water access continues to increase around the world, we may be subject to decreased availability of water, deteriorated quality of water or less favorable pricing for water, which could adversely impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. the continued increasing concern over climate change may result in new or increased regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. in the event that such regulation is more stringent than current regulatory obligations or the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor and improve our energy efficiency and water conservation, we may experience disruptions in, or significant increases in our costs of, operation and delivery and we may be required to make additional investments in facilities and equipment or relocate our facilities. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. as a result, the effects of climate change or water scarcity could negatively affect our business and operations. in addition, any perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning climate change or water scarcity could result in adverse publicity and could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. 25 table of contents there is also increased focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, customers and consumers on these and other environmental sustainability matters, including deforestation, land use, climate impact and water use. our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to our impact on the environment. a portion of our workforce belongs to unions. failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages, could cause our business to suffer. many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and other employees may seek to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. strikes or work stoppages or other business interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could impair manufacturing and distribution of our products or result in a loss of sales, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. the terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new collective bargaining agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency or to adapt to changing business needs or strategy. if we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the value of our products or brands, or our competitive position, could be reduced, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets that are important to our business and relate to a variety of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and trade secrets, including our ingredient formulas, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands, or our competitive position, could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, if, in the course of developing new products or improving the quality of existing products, we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, such finding could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations and may limit our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products. potential liabilities and costs from litigation, legal proceedings or investigations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal claims, proceedings and investigations, including but not limited to litigation related to our advertising, marketing or commercial practices, product labels, claims and ingredients including, sugar, sodium and saturated fat, our intellectual property rights, alleged infringement or misappropriation by us of intellectual property rights of others and environmental, employment and insurance matters. we evaluate legal claims to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses and establish reserves as appropriate. litigation is inherently uncertain and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in litigation, or that our assessment of the materiality of these matters and the likely outcome or potential losses and established reserves will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such litigation. in the event that management's assessment of actual or potential claims and proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation that 26 table of contents is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. defending ourselves from claims, including non-meritorious claims, may also require us to incur significant expense and devote significant resources, and may generate adverse publicity that may damage our reputation or brand image, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many factors may adversely affect the price of our publicly traded securities. many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and publicly traded debt. such factors, some of which are beyond our control, may include, but are not limited to: unfavorable economic conditions; changes in financial or tax reporting and changes in accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results; investor perceptions of our business, strategies and performance or those of our competitors; actions by shareholders or others seeking to influence our business strategies; speculation by the media or investment community regarding our business, strategies and performance or those of our competitors; trading activity in our securities or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our securities; changes in our credit ratings; the impact of our share repurchase programs or dividend policy; and the outcome of referenda and elections. in addition, corporate actions, such as those we may or may not take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure and our strategy, including as a result of business, legal, regulatory and tax considerations, may not have the impact we intend and may adversely affect the price of our securities. the above factors, as well as the other risks included in this item 1a. risk factors, could adversely affect the price of our securities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 131 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks.risk factors 10 risk factors and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business our business risks. investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all-inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance. part i item 1. business. when used in this report, the terms we, us, our, pepsico and the company mean pepsico, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively. certain terms used in this annual report on form 10-k are defined in the glossary included in item 7. of this report. company overview we were incorporated in delaware in 1919 and reincorporated in north carolina in 1986. we are a leading global food and beverage company with a complementary portfolio of enjoyable brands, including frito-lay, gatorade, pepsi-cola, quaker and tropicana. through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third parties, we make, market, distribute and sell a wide variety of convenient and enjoyable beverages, foods and snacks, serving customers and consumers in more than 200 countries and territories. our operations we are organized into six reportable segments (also referred to as divisions), as follows: 1) frito-lay north america (flna), which includes our branded food and snack businesses in the united states and canada; 2) quaker foods north america (qfna), which includes our cereal, rice, pasta and other branded food businesses in the united states and canada; 3) north america beverages (nab), which includes our beverage businesses in the united states and canada; 4) latin america, which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in latin america; 5) europe sub-saharan africa (essa), which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in europe and sub-saharan africa; and 2 table of contents 6) asia, middle east and north africa (amena), which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in asia, middle east and north africa. our segment net revenue (in millions) and contributions to consolidated net revenue for each of the last three fiscal years were as follows: net revenue % of total net revenue 2017 2016 (a) 2015 2017 2016 2015 flna $ 15,798 $ 15,549 $ 14,782 25 % 25 % 23 % qfna 2,503 2,564 2,543 4 4 4 nab 20,936 21,312 20,618 33 34 33 latin america 7,208 6,820 8,228 11 11 13 essa 11,050 10,216 10,510 17 16 17 amena 6,030 6,338 6,375 10 10 10 $ 63,525 $ 62,799 $ 63,056 100 % 100 % 100 % (a) our fiscal 2016 results included an extra week of results (53 rd reporting week). the 53 rd reporting week increased 2016 net revenue by $657 million, including $294 million in our flna segment, $43 million in our qfna segment, $300 million in our nab segment and $20 million in our essa segment. see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and geographic areas. see also item 1a. risk factors below for a discussion of certain risks associated with our operations, including outside the united states. frito-lay north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, flna makes, markets, distributes and sells branded snack foods. these foods include branded dips, cheetos cheese-flavored snacks, doritos tortilla chips, fritos corn chips, lay's potato chips, ruffles potato chips, santitas tortilla chips and tostitos tortilla chips. flna's branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. in addition, flna's joint venture with strauss group makes, markets, distributes and sells sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. quaker foods north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, qfna makes, markets, distributes and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. qfna's products include aunt jemima mixes and syrups, cap'n crunch cereal, life cereal, quaker chewy granola bars, quaker grits, quaker oat squares, quaker oatmeal, quaker rice cakes, quaker simply granola and rice-a-roni side dishes. these branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. north america beverages either independently or in conjunction with third parties, nab makes, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including aquafina, diet mountain dew, diet pepsi, gatorade, mist twst, mountain dew, pepsi, propel and tropicana. nab also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea and coffee products through joint ventures with unilever (under the lipton brand name) and starbucks, respectively. further, nab manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from dr pepper snapple group, inc. (dpsg), including crush, dr pepper and schweppes, and certain juice brands licensed from dole food company, inc. (dole) and ocean spray cranberries, inc. (ocean spray). nab operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities and sells branded finished goods directly to independent distributors and retailers. nab also sells concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized and independent bottlers, who in turn sell our branded finished goods to independent distributors and retailers in certain markets. 3 table of contents latin america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, latin america makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of snack food brands including cheetos, doritos, emperador, lay's, marias gamesa, rosquinhas mabel, ruffles, sabritas, saladitas and tostitos, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks. latin america also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7up, diet pepsi, gatorade, h2oh!, manzanita sol, mirinda, pepsi and toddy. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. latin america also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for information about the deconsolidation of our venezuelan subsidiaries, which was effective as of the end of the third quarter of 2015. europe sub-saharan africa either independently or in conjunction with third parties, essa makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including cheetos, chipita, doritos, lay's, ruffles and walkers, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. essa also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7up, diet pepsi, mirinda, pepsi, pepsi max and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. in certain markets, however, essa operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. essa also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). in addition, essa makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading dairy products including agusha, chudo and domik v derevne. asia, middle east and north africa either independently or in conjunction with third parties, amena makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including cheetos, chipsy, crunchy, doritos, kurkure and lay's, as well as many quaker branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses, as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. amena also makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7up, aquafina, mirinda, mountain dew, pepsi and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. in certain markets, however, amena operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. amena also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). further, we license the tropicana brand for use in china on co-branded juice products in connection with a strategic alliance with tingyi (cayman islands) holding corp. (tingyi). our distribution network our products are primarily brought to market through direct-store-delivery (dsd), customer warehouse and distributor networks. the distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. direct-store-delivery we, our independent bottlers and our distributors operate dsd systems that deliver beverages, foods and snacks directly to retail stores where the products are merchandised by our employees or our independent bottlers. dsd enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. dsd is especially well-suited 4 table of contents to products that are restocked often and respond to in-store promotion and merchandising. customer warehouse some of our products are delivered from our manufacturing plants and warehouses to customer warehouses. these less costly systems generally work best for products that are less fragile and perishable, and have lower turnover. distributor networks we distribute many of our products through third-party distributors. third-party distributors are particularly effective when greater distribution reach can be achieved by including a wide range of products on the delivery vehicles. for example, our foodservice and vending business distributes beverages, foods and snacks to restaurants, businesses, schools and stadiums through third-party foodservice and vending distributors and operators. our products are also available on a growing number of e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications as consumer consumption patterns continue to change and retail increasingly expands online. ingredients and other supplies the principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit, oranges and other fruits, oats, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. we also use water in the manufacturing of our products. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (pet) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel, electricity and natural gas are also important commodities for our businesses due to their use in our and our business partners' facilities and the vehicles delivering our products. we employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages that would prevent us from meeting our requirements. many of these ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures. in addition, risk to our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. when prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. in addition, we continue to make investments to improve the sustainability and resources of our agricultural supply chain, including the development of our initiative to advance sustainable farming practices by our suppliers and expanding it globally. see note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our exposure to commodity costs. our brands and intellectual property rights we own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including agusha, amp energy, aquafina, aquafina flavorsplash, aunt jemima, cap'n crunch, cheetos, chester's, chipsy, chokis, chudo, cracker jack, crunchy, diet mist twst, diet mountain dew, diet mug, diet pepsi, diet 7up (outside the united states), domik v derevne, doritos, duyvis, elma chips, emperador, frito-lay, fritos, fruktovy sad, g2, gamesa, gatorade, grandma's, h2oh!, imunele, izze, j-7 tonus, kas, kevita, kurkure, lay's, life, lifewtr, lifewater, lubimy, manzanita sol, marias gamesa, matutano, mirinda, miss vickie's, mist twst, mother's, mountain dew, mountain dew code red, mountain dew kickstart, mug, munchies, naked, near east, o.n.e., paso de los toros, pasta roni, pepsi, pepsi max, pepsi next, pepsi zero sugar, propel, quaker, quaker chewy, rice-a-roni, rold gold, rosquinhas mabel, ruffles, sabritas, sakata, saladitas, sandora, santitas, 7up (outside the united states), 7up free (outside the united states), simba, smartfood, smith's, snack a jacks, sobe, sobe lifewater, sonric's, stacy's, sting, sunchips, toddy, 5 table of contents toddynho, tostitos, trop 50, tropicana, tropicana farmstand, tropicana pure premium, tropicana twister, v water, vesely molochnik, walkers and ya. we also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products in certain markets, including dole and ocean spray. we also distribute rockstar energy drinks, muscle milk protein shakes and various dpsg brands, including dr pepper in certain markets, crush and schweppes. joint ventures in which we have an ownership interest either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as lipton, sabra and starbucks. trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. we have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. in addition, we license the use of our trademarks on merchandise that is sold at retail, which enhances brand awareness. we either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to certain of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. some of these patents are licensed to others. seasonality our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. for instance, our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food and dairy sales are higher in the cooler months. weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. however, taken as a whole, seasonality has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial results. our customers our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, hard discounters, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. we normally grant our independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. these arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality. we also grant distribution rights to our independent bottlers for certain beverage products bearing our trademarks for specified geographic areas. we rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our products to the consumer. for our independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include volume-based rebates, product placement fees, promotions and displays. for our independent bottlers, these incentives are referred to as bottler funding and are negotiated annually with each bottler to support a variety of trade and consumer programs, such as consumer incentives, advertising support, new product support, and vending and cooler equipment placement. consumer incentives include coupons, pricing discounts and promotions, and other promotional offers. advertising support is directed at advertising programs and supporting independent bottler media. new product support includes targeted consumer and retailer incentives and direct marketplace support, such as point-of-purchase materials, product placement fees, media and advertising. vending and cooler equipment placement programs support the acquisition and placement of vending machines and cooler equipment. the nature and type of programs vary annually. changes to the retail landscape, including increased consolidation of retail ownership, the rapid growth of sales through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, the integration of physical and digital operations among retailers, as well as the growth in hard discounters, and the current economic environment continue to increase the importance of major customers. in 2017 , sales to walmart inc. (walmart), including sam's club (sam's), represented approximately 13% of our consolidated net revenue. our top five retail customers represented approximately 33% of our 2017 net revenue in north america, with walmart (including 6 table of contents sam's) representing approximately 19% . these percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers, which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. see off-balance-sheet arrangements in our financial results our liquidity and capital resources in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for more information on our independent bottlers. our competition our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers, economy brands and other competitors. in many countries in which our products are sold, including the united states, the coca-cola company is our primary beverage competitor. other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, dpsg, kellogg company, the kraft heinz company, mondel z international, inc., monster beverage corporation, nestl s.a., red bull gmbh and snyder's-lance, inc. many of our food and snack products hold significant leadership positions in the food and snack industry in the united states and worldwide. in 2017 , we and the coca-cola company represented approximately 23% and 20%, respectively, of the u.s. liquid refreshment beverage category by estimated retail sales in measured channels, according to information resources, inc. however, the coca-cola company has significant carbonated soft drink (csd) share advantage in many markets outside the united states. our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition and loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness and the continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of distributing and purchasing products. success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, effective introduction of new products and reformulations of existing products, the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging, pricing, increased efficiency in production techniques, new vending and dispensing equipment and brand and trademark development and protection. we believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allows us to compete effectively. research and development we engage in a variety of research and development activities and invest in innovation globally with the goal of meeting changing consumer demands and preferences and accelerating sustainable growth. these activities principally involve: development of new ingredients, flavors and products; reformulation and improvement in the quality and appeal of existing products; improvement and modernization of manufacturing processes, including cost reduction; improvements in product quality, safety and integrity; development of, and improvements in, dispensing equipment, packaging technology, package design and portion sizes; efforts focused on identifying opportunities to transform, grow and broaden our product portfolio, including by developing products with improved nutrition profiles that reduce added sugars, sodium or saturated fat, including through the use of sweetener alternatives and flavor modifiers and innovation in existing sweeteners, and by offering more products with positive nutrition including whole grains, fruits and vegetables, dairy, protein and hydration; investments in building our capabilities to support our global e-commerce business; and improvements in energy efficiency and efforts focused on reducing our impact on the environment. our research centers are located around the world, including in brazil, china, india, ireland, mexico, russia, the united arab emirates, the united kingdom and the united states, and leverage nutrition science, food 7 table of contents science, engineering and consumer insights to meet our strategy to continue to develop nutritious and convenient beverages, foods and snacks. in 2017 , we continued to refine our beverage, food and snack portfolio to meet changing consumer demands by reducing added sugars in many of our beverages and sodium and saturated fat in many of our foods and snacks, and by developing a broader portfolio of product choices, including: continuing to expand our beverage options that contain no high-fructose corn syrup and that are made with natural flavors; expanding our state-of-the-art food and beverage healthy vending initiative to increase the availability of convenient, affordable and enjoyable nutrition; further expanding our portfolio of nutritious products by building on our important nutrition platforms and brands quaker (grains), tropicana (juices, lemonades, fruit and vegetable drinks), gatorade (sports nutrition for athletes), naked juice (cold-pressed juices and smoothies) and kevita (probiotics, tonics and fermented teas); further expanding our whole grain products globally; and further expanding our portfolio of nutritious products in growing categories, such as dairy, hummus and other refrigerated dips, and baked grain snacks. in addition, we continued to make investments to reduce our impact on the environment, including: efforts to conserve raw materials and energy, such as by working to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions across our global businesses, by helping to protect and conserve global water supply especially in high-water-risk locations (including replenishing watersheds that source our operations in high-water-risk locations and promoting the efficient use of water use in our agricultural supply chain), and by incorporating into our operations, improvements in the sustainability and resources of our agricultural supply chain; efforts to reduce waste generated by our operations and disposed of in landfills; efforts to support increased packaging recovery and recycling rates; efforts to increase energy efficiency, including the increased use of renewable energy and resources; efforts to support sustainable agriculture by expanding best practices with our growers and suppliers; and efforts to optimize packaging technology and design to make our packaging increasingly recoverable or recyclable with lower environmental impact, including continuing to invest in developing compostable and biodegradable packaging. research and development costs were $737 million , $760 million and $ 754 million in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses. consumer research is excluded from such research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. regulatory matters the conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, content, quality, safety, transportation, disposal, recycling and use of our products, as well as our occupational health and safety practices and protection of personal information, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in the more than 200 other countries and territories in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. it is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. the u.s. laws and regulations that we are subject to include: the federal food, drug and cosmetic act and various state laws governing food safety; the food safety modernization act; the occupational safety and health act; various federal, state and local environmental protection laws, as discussed below; the federal motor carrier safety act; the federal trade commission act; the lanham act; various federal and state laws and regulations governing competition and trade practices; various federal and state laws and regulations governing our employment practices, including those related to equal employment opportunity, such as the equal employment opportunity act and the national labor relations act and those related to overtime compensation, such as the fair labor standards act; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations; laws regulating the sale of certain of our products in schools; and laws relating to the payment of taxes. we are also required to comply with the foreign corrupt practices act and the trade sanctions reform and export enhancement act. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including state consumer protection laws such as proposition 65 in california, which requires that a specific warning appear 8 table of contents on any product that contains a substance listed by the state of california as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects, unless the amount of such substance in the product is below a safe harbor level. we are also subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside the united states, including but not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, occupational health and safety, competition, anti-corruption and data privacy. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws, including the u.k. bribery act. we rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel and other experts, to guide our businesses in complying with the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. in addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed, or are considering imposing, new or increased taxes on the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products. these taxes vary in scope and form: some apply to all beverages, including non-caloric beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). similarly, some measures apply a single tax rate per liquid ounce while others apply a graduated tax rate depending upon the amount of added sugar in the beverage and some apply a flat tax rate on beverages containing a particular substance or ingredient. in addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed, or are considering imposing, product labeling or warning requirements or other limitations on the marketing or sale of certain of our products as a result of ingredients or substances contained in such products or the audience to whom products are marketed. these types of provisions have required that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns consumers to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products. it is possible that similar or more restrictive requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. regulators may also restrict consumers' ability to use benefit programs, such as the supplemental nutrition assistance program in the united states, to purchase certain beverages and foods. in addition, legislation has been enacted in certain u.s. states and in certain other countries where our products are sold that requires collection and recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers, unless a deposit, ecotax or other fee is charged. it is possible that similar or more restrictive requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. we are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the united states and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater discharge and air emissions. in the united states, our facilities must comply with the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the resource conservation and recovery act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, storage, release and disposal of wastes generated on-site and sent to third-party owned and operated off-site licensed facilities and our facilities outside the united states must comply with similar laws and regulations. in addition, continuing concern over climate change may result in new or increased legal and regulatory requirements (in or outside of the united states) to reduce or mitigate the potential effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. our policy is to abide by all applicable environmental laws and regulations, and we have internal programs in place with respect to our global environmental compliance. we have made, and plan to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. while these expenditures have not had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date, changes in environmental compliance requirements, and any expenditures necessary to comply with such requirements, could adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. while these environmental remediation and indemnification 9 table of contents obligations cannot be predicted with certainty, such obligations have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. in addition to the discussion in this section, see also item 1a. risk factors. employees as of december 30, 2017 , we and our consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 263,000 people worldwide, including approximately 113,000 people within the united states. in certain countries, our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. we or our subsidiaries are party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. we expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. we believe that relations with our employees are generally good. available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act), are also available free of charge on our internet site at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. investors should note that we currently announce material information to our investors and others using filings with the sec, press releases, public conference calls, webcasts or our corporate website ( www.pepsico.com ), including news and announcements regarding our financial performance, key personnel, our brands and our business strategy. information that we post on our corporate website could be deemed material to investors. we encourage investors, the media, our customers, consumers, business partners and others interested in us to review the information we post on these channels. we may from time to time update the list of channels we will use to communicate information that could be deemed material and will post information about any such change on www.pepsico.com . the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the factors described below could occur or continue to occur and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our publicly traded securities. the risks below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may occur or become material in the future and may also adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our publicly traded securities. therefore, historical operating results, financial and business performance, events and trends may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results, financial and business performance, events or trends. 10 table of contents demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate, market or distribute our products effectively, and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are a global food and beverage company operating in highly competitive categories and markets. to generate revenues and profits, we rely on continued demand for our products and therefore must understand our customers and consumers and sell products that appeal to them in the sales channel in which they prefer to shop or browse for such products. in general, changes in consumption in our product categories or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. demand for our products depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to shifts in consumer trends and preferences, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are concerned with: health and wellness (including products that have less added sugars, sodium and saturated fat); convenience (including responding to changes in in-home and on-the-go consumption patterns and methods of distribution of our products to customers and consumers); or the location of origin or source of the ingredients and products (including the environmental impact related to the production of our products). consumer preferences have been evolving, and are expected to continue to evolve, due to a variety of factors, including: changes in consumer demographics, including the aging of the general population and the emergence of the millennial and younger generations who have differing spending and consumption habits; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the nutrition profile of certain of our products, including the presence of added sugar, sodium and saturated fat in certain of our products; growing demand for organic or locally sourced ingredients, or consumer concerns or perceptions (whether or not valid) regarding the health effects of ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, such as 4-mei, acrylamide, artificial flavors and colors, artificial sweeteners, aspartame, caffeine, furfuryl alcohol, high-fructose corn syrup, partially hydrolyzed oils, saturated fat, sodium, sugar, trans fats or other product ingredients, substances or attributes, including genetically engineered ingredients; taxes or other restrictions, including labeling requirements, imposed on our products; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding packaging materials, including their environmental impact; changes in package or portion size; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns; changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; the continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of purchasing products; negative publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory actions, litigation against us or other companies in our industry or negative or inaccurate posts or comments in the media, including social media, about us, our employees, our products or advertising campaigns and marketing programs; perception of social media posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees and agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; perception of our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or the business practices of such parties; product boycotts; or a downturn in economic conditions. any of these factors may reduce consumers' willingness to purchase our products and any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position and could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. demand for our products is also dependent in part on product quality, product and marketing innovation and production and distribution, including our ability to: maintain a robust pipeline of new products; improve the quality of existing products; extend our portfolio of products in growing markets and categories; respond to cultural differences and regional consumer preferences (whether through developing or acquiring new products that are responsive to such preferences); monitor and adjust our use of ingredients (including to respond to applicable regulations); develop or acquire a broader portfolio of product choices, including by continuing to increase non-carbonated beverage offerings and other alternatives to traditional carbonated beverage offerings and, in some cases, reformulations of our traditional carbonated beverage offerings; develop sweetener alternatives and innovation; improve the production, packaging and distribution of our 11 table of contents products; respond to competitive product and pricing pressures and changes in distribution channels, including in the rapidly growing e-commerce channel; and implement effective advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including successfully adapting to a rapidly changing media environment through the use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. although we devote significant resources to the items mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop, launch, maintain or distribute successful new products or variants of existing products in a timely manner (including to correctly anticipate or effectively react to changes in consumer preferences) or to develop and effectively execute advertising and marketing campaigns that appeal to customers and consumers. our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products or effectively distribute our products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of our existing brands and may result in inventory write-offs and other costs that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the conduct of our business is subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as government entities and agencies outside the united states, including laws and regulations relating to the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, content, quality, safety, transportation, disposal, recycling and use of our products, as well as our employment and occupational health and safety practices and protection of personal information. in addition, in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. many of these laws and regulations have differing or conflicting legal standards across the various markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold and, in certain markets, such as developing and emerging markets, may be less developed or certain. for example, products containing genetically engineered ingredients are subject to varying regulations and restrictions in the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. in addition, these laws and regulations and related interpretations may change, sometimes dramatically and unexpectedly, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. such changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to product labeling, advertising and marketing practices; laws and treaties related to international trade, including laws regarding the import or export of our products or ingredients used in our products and tariffs; laws and programs restricting the sale and advertising of certain of our products, including restrictions on the audience to whom products are marketed; laws and programs aimed at reducing, restricting or eliminating ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, certain of our products; laws and programs aimed at discouraging the consumption or altering the package or portion size of certain of our products, including laws imposing restrictions on the use of government funds or programs, such as the supplemental nutrition assistance program (included within the farm bill in the united states), to purchase certain of our products; increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving product claims and concerns (whether or not valid) regarding the effects on health of ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, certain of our products, including without limitation those found in energy drinks; state consumer protection laws; laws regulating the protection of personal information; cyber-security regulations; regulatory initiatives, including the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other measures impacting the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products; accounting rules and interpretations; employment laws; privacy laws; laws regulating the price we may charge for our products; laws regulating water rights and access to and use of water or utilities; environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water treatment and discharge of wastewater and air emissions and laws relating to the disposal, recovery or recycling of our products and their packaging. changes in regulatory requirements, and competing regulations and standards, where our 12 table of contents products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, may result in higher compliance costs, capital expenditures and higher production costs, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. the imposition by any jurisdiction in the united states or outside the united states of new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, including taxes, labeling, product or production requirements or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale or advertisement of certain of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products, may further alter the way in which we do business and, therefore, may continue to increase our costs or liabilities or reduce demand for our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if one jurisdiction imposes or proposes to impose new requirements or restrictions, other jurisdictions may follow and the requirements or restrictions, or proposed requirements or restrictions, may also result in adverse publicity (whether or not valid). for example, if one jurisdiction imposes a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages or foods, or imposes a specific labeling or warning requirement, other jurisdictions may impose similar or other measures that impact the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products. the foregoing may result in decreased demand for our products, adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of ingredients or substances in our products (whether or not valid). in addition, studies (whether or not scientifically valid) are underway by third parties purporting to assess the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, such as 4-mei, acrylamide, caffeine, furfuryl alcohol, added sugars, sodium and saturated fat. third parties have also published documents or studies claiming (whether or not valid) that taxes can address consumer consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and other foods high in sugar, sodium or saturated fat. if, as a result of these studies and documents or otherwise, there is an increase in consumer concerns (whether or not valid) about the health implications of consumption of our products, an increase in the number of jurisdictions that impose taxes on our products, or an increase in new labeling, product or production requirements or other restrictions on the manufacturing, sale or display of our products, demand for our products could decline, or we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, suppliers, or other third parties with whom we do business could take actions, intentional or not, that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations or could fail to maintain required documentation sufficient to evidence our compliance with applicable laws or regulations. violations of laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, penalties, disgorgement of profits or activity restrictions, any of which could result in adverse publicity or affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or assets or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on the sales of products in our portfolio or could lead to damage to our reputation. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. we cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters 13 table of contents will not exceed our estimates or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes aimed at our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, new or increased taxes on the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products. these taxes vary in scope and form: some apply to all beverages, including non-caloric beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). similarly, some measures apply a single tax rate per liquid ounce while others apply a graduated tax rate depending upon the amount of added sugar in the beverage and some apply a flat tax rate on beverages containing a particular substance or ingredient. for example, effective january 2018, the city of seattle, washington in the united states enacted a per-ounce surcharge on all sugar-sweetened beverages. by contrast, the united kingdom enacted a graduated tax, effective april 2018, in which the per-ounce tax rate is tied to the amount of added sugar present in the beverage: the higher the amount of added sugar, the higher the per-ounce tax rate and saudi arabia enacted, effective june 2017, a flat tax rate of 50% on the retail price of carbonated soft drinks. these tax measures, whatever their scope or form, could increase the cost of our products, reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether based on scientific fact or not) or leave consumers with the perception (whether or not valid) that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs. such factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of our products may reduce demand for such products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, product labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of certain of our products as a result of ingredients or substances contained in such products. these types of provisions have required that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns consumers to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products. for example, in california in the united states, proposition 65 requires a specific warning on or relating to any product that contains a substance listed by the state of california as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects or other reproductive harm, unless the level of such substance in the product is below a safe harbor level established by the state of california. in addition, a number of jurisdictions, both in and outside the united states, have imposed or are considering imposing labeling requirements, including color-coded labeling of certain food and beverage products where colors such as red, yellow and green are used to indicate various levels of a particular ingredient, such as sugar, sodium or saturated fat. the imposition or proposed imposition of additional product labeling or warning requirements could reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether based on scientific fact or not) or leave consumers with the perception (whether or not valid) that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs. such factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in laws and regulations relating to packaging or disposal of our products could continue to increase our costs and reduce demand for our products or otherwise have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. certain of our products are sold in packaging designed to be recoverable for recycling but not all packaging 14 table of contents is recovered, whether due to low value, lack of infrastructure or otherwise. the united states and many other jurisdictions have imposed or are considering imposing regulations or policies designed to encourage recycling, including requiring that deposits or certain taxes or fees be charged in connection with the sale, distribution, marketing and use of certain packaging; extended producer responsibility policies which makes brand owners responsible for the costs of recycling products after consumers have used them; and adopting or extending product stewardship policies which could require brand owners to plan for and, if necessary, pay for the recycling or disposal of packaging after consumers have used them. in addition, these jurisdictions may elect to impose regulations or policies to ban the use of certain packaging, such as plastic beverage bottles. compliance with these laws and regulations could continue to affect our costs or require changes in our distribution model, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. further, our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to packaging or disposal of our products. our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local, and private label manufacturers, economy brands and other competitors. in many countries in which our products are sold, including the united states, the coca-cola company is our primary beverage competitor. other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, dpsg, kellogg company, the kraft heinz company, mondel z international, inc., monster beverage corporation, nestl s.a., red bull gmbh and snyder's-lance, inc. our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition and loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness and the continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of distributing and purchasing products. if we are unable to effectively promote our existing products or introduce new products, if our advertising or marketing campaigns are not effective or if we are otherwise unable to effectively respond to pricing pressure or compete effectively (including in distributing our products effectively and cost efficiently through all existing and emerging channels of trade, including through e-commerce and hard discounters), we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or category share or we may need to increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold may be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the results of elections, referendums or other political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold could create uncertainty regarding how existing laws and regulations may change, including with respect to sanctions, climate change regulation, taxes, the movement of goods, services and people between countries and other matters, and could result in exchange rate fluctuation, volatility in global stock markets and global economic uncertainty. for example, there is continued uncertainty surrounding the united kingdom's pending withdrawal from the european union, including how the united kingdom will interact with other european union countries following its departure. any changes in, or the imposition of new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations due to elections, 15 table of contents referendums or other political conditions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets. our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in developing and emerging markets, including mexico, russia, the middle east, brazil, china and india. however, there can be no assurance that our existing products, variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, distribute or sell will be accepted or be successful in any particular developing or emerging market, due to local or global competition, product price, cultural differences, consumer preferences or otherwise. the following factors could reduce demand for our products or otherwise impede the growth of our business in developing and emerging markets: unstable economic, political or social conditions; acts of war, terrorist acts, and civil unrest; increased competition; volatility in the economic growth of certain of these markets and the related impact on developed countries who export to these markets; volatile oil prices and the impact on the local economy in certain of these markets; our inability to acquire businesses, form strategic business alliances or to make necessary infrastructure investments; our inability to complete divestitures or refranchisings; imposition of new or increased labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions; imposition of new or increased sanctions against, or other regulations restricting contact with, certain countries in these markets, or imposition of new or increased sanctions against u.s. multinational corporations operating in these markets; actions, such as removing our products from shelves, taken by retailers in response to u.s. trade sanctions or other governmental action or policy; foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets or the assets of our suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; imposition of taxes on our products or the ingredients or substances used in our products; government-mandated closure, or threatened closure, of our operations or the operations of our suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners, customers or other third parties; restrictions on the import or export of our products or ingredients or substances used in our products; regulations relating to the repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the united states; highly-inflationary economies, devaluation or fluctuation, such as the devaluation of the egyptian pound, turkish lira, pound sterling, argentine peso and the mexican peso, or demonetization of currency; regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions, which result in significant cash balances in foreign countries, from time to time, or could significantly affect our ability to effectively manage our operations in certain of these markets and could result in the deconsolidation of such businesses; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems; increased costs of doing business due to compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and the trade sanctions reform and export enhancement act; and adverse consequences, such as the assessment of fines or penalties, for any failure to comply with these laws and regulations. if we are unable to expand our businesses in developing and emerging markets, effectively operate, or manage the risks associated with operating, in these markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect from our investments in these markets, our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of the countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed and sold have experienced and may, from time to time, continue to experience uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions, such as recessions or economic slowdowns. our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions in the united states and globally, including: adverse changes in interest rates, tax laws or tax rates; volatile commodity markets, including speculative influences; highly-inflationary 16 table of contents economies, devaluation, fluctuation or demonetization; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace due to legislation or economic conditions; the effects of government initiatives, including demonetization, austerity or stimulus measures to manage economic conditions and any changes to or cessation of such initiatives; the effects of any default by or deterioration in the creditworthiness of the countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold or of countries that may then impact countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold; reduced demand for our products resulting from volatility in general global economic conditions or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other lower-cost products, or to less profitable sales channels; or a decrease in the fair value of pension or post-retirement assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension or post-retirement plans. in addition, we cannot predict how current or future economic conditions will affect our customers, consumers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties and any negative impact on any of the foregoing may also have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including u.s. and non-u.s. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks and other financial institutions, may be exposed to a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity events, default or similar risks as a result of unfavorable economic conditions, changing regulatory requirements or other factors beyond our control. a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a major financial institution, or changes in the regulatory environment, may limit the ability or willingness of financial institutions to enter into financial transactions with us, including to provide banking or related cash management services, or to extend credit on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all; may leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or exposed to certain currencies or price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials, including through our use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures; or may result in a decline in the market value of our investments in debt securities, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. similar risks exist with respect to our customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors and joint venture partners and could result in their inability to obtain credit to purchase our products or to finance the manufacture and distribution of our products resulting in canceled orders and/or product delays, which could also have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against, or effectively respond to, cyberattacks or other cyber incidents or if our information systems, or those of our customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, are otherwise disrupted. we depend on information systems and technology, some of which are provided by third parties, including public websites and cloud-based services, for many activities important to our business, including: to interface with our customers and consumers; to engage in marketing activities; to enable and improve the effectiveness of our operations; to order and manage materials from suppliers; to manage inventory; to manage our facilities; to conduct research and development; to maintain accurate financial records; to achieve operational efficiencies; to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements; to collect and store sensitive data and confidential information; to communicate electronically among our global operations and with our employees and the employees of our customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners and other third parties; and to communicate with our investors. as with other global companies, we are regularly subject to cyberattacks. cyberattacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups and individuals (including criminal hackers, hacktivists, state-sponsored 17 table of contents institutions, terrorist organizations and individuals or groups participating in organized crime) with a wide range of expertise and motives (including monetization of corporate, payment or other internal or personal data, theft of trade secrets and intellectual property for competitive advantage and leverage for political, social, economic and environmental reasons). such cyberattacks and cyber incidents can take many forms including cyber extortion, denial of service, social engineering, such as impersonation attempts to fraudulently induce employees or others to disclose information or unwittingly provide access to systems or data, introduction of viruses or malware, such as ransomware through phishing emails, website defacement or theft of passwords and other credentials. although we may incur significant costs in protecting against or remediating cyberattacks or other cyber incidents, no cyberattack or other cyber incident has, to our knowledge, had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and maintain our information technology infrastructure, including monitoring networks and systems, upgrading our security policies and the skills and training of our employees, and requiring our third-party service providers, customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties to do the same, if we or they fail to timely identify or appropriately respond to cyberattacks or other cyber incidents, or if our or their information systems are damaged, compromised, destroyed or shut down (whether as a result of natural disasters, fires, power outages, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events, network outages, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, technology development defects, user errors, or from deliberate cyberattacks such as malicious or disruptive software, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering, hackers or otherwise), our business could be disrupted and we could, among other things, be subject to: transaction errors; processing inefficiencies; the loss of, or failure to attract, new customers and consumers; lost revenues resulting from the disruption or shutdown of computer systems or other information technology systems at our offices, plants, warehouses, distribution centers or other facilities, or the loss of a competitive advantage due to the unauthorized use, acquisition or disclosure of, or access to, confidential information; the incurrence of costs to restore data and to safeguard against future extortion attempts; the loss of, or damage to, intellectual property or trade secrets, including the loss or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive data or other assets; alteration, corruption or loss of accounting, financial or other data on which we rely for financial reporting and other purposes, which could cause delays in our financial reporting; damage to our reputation or brands; damage to employee, customer and consumer relations; litigation; regulatory enforcement actions or fines; unauthorized disclosure of confidential personal information of our employees, customers or consumers; the loss of information and/or supply chain disruption resulting from the failure of security patches to be developed and installed on a timely basis; violation of data privacy, security or other laws and regulations; and remediation costs. further, our information systems and the information stored therein could be compromised by, and we could experience similar adverse consequences due to, unauthorized outside parties accessing or extracting sensitive data or confidential information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes (or demonstrating an ability to do so) or by inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, agents or third parties. we continue to devote significant resources to network security, backup and disaster recovery, and other security measures, including training, to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security or guarantee that we will be successful in preventing or responding to every such breach or disruption. in addition, due to the constantly evolving nature of these security threats, the form and impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. similar risks exist with respect to the cloud-based service providers and other third-party vendors that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors. the need to coordinate with various third-party vendors may complicate our efforts to resolve any issues that may arise. as a result, 18 table of contents we are subject to the risk that the activities associated with our third-party vendors may adversely affect our business even if the attack or breach does not directly impact our systems or information. moreover, our increased use of mobile and cloud technologies could heighten these and other operational risks, as certain aspects of the security of such technologies may be complex, unpredictable or beyond our control. while we currently maintain insurance coverage that, subject to its terms and conditions, is intended to address costs associated with certain aspects of cyber incidents, network failures and data privacy-related concerns, this insurance coverage may not, depending on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding an incident, cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise from an incident, or the damage to our reputation or brands that may result from an incident. our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials, energy, water and other supplies. we and our business partners use various raw materials, energy, water and other supplies in our business. the principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit, oranges and other fruits, oats, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. we also use water in the manufacturing of our products. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including pet and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel, electricity and natural gas are also important commodities for our businesses due to their use in our and our business partners' facilities and the vehicles delivering our products. some of these raw materials and supplies are sourced from countries experiencing civil unrest, political instability or unfavorable economic conditions, and some are available from a limited number of suppliers or a sole supplier or are in short supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers or that our contingency plans, including development of ingredients, materials or supplies to replace ingredients, materials or supplies sourced from such suppliers, will be effective in preventing disruptions that may arise from shortages or discontinuation of any ingredient that is sourced from such suppliers. in addition, increasing focus on climate change, deforestation, water, animal welfare and human rights concerns and other risks associated with the global food system may lead to increased activism focusing on consumer goods companies, governmental intervention and consumer response, and could adversely affect our or our suppliers' reputation and business and our ability to procure the materials we need to operate our business. the raw materials and energy, including fuel, that we use for the manufacturing, production and distribution of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by many factors, including changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions (including any potential effects of climate change), fire, natural disasters (such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flooding), disease or pests, agricultural uncertainty, health epidemics or pandemics, governmental incentives and controls (including import/export restrictions), political uncertainties, acts of terrorism, governmental instability or currency exchange rates. shortage of some of these raw materials and other supplies, sustained interruption in their supply or an increase in their costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures. if commodity price changes result in unexpected or significant increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may be unwilling or unable to increase our product prices or unable to effectively hedge against commodity price increases to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue, margins and operating results. in addition, certain of the derivatives used to hedge price risk do not qualify for hedge 19 table of contents accounting treatment and, therefore, can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. the lack of available water of acceptable quality and increasing pressure to conserve water in areas of scarcity and stress may lead to: supply chain disruption; adverse effects on our operations; higher compliance costs; capital expenditures (including additional investments in the development of technologies to enhance water efficiency and reduce water consumption); higher production costs; the cessation of operations at, or relocation of, our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; or damage to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. business disruptions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability, and that of our suppliers and other third parties, including our bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint venture partners, distributors and customers, to make, manufacture, transport, distribute and sell products in our portfolio is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their operations due to any of the following factors could impair the ability to make, manufacture, transport, distribute or sell products in our portfolio: adverse weather conditions (including any potential effects of climate change) or natural disasters, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flooding; government action; economic or political uncertainties or instability in countries in which such products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, which may also affect our ability to protect the security of our assets and employees; fire; terrorism; outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; food safety warnings or recalls, whether related to products in our portfolio or otherwise; health epidemics or pandemics; supply and commodity shortages; unplanned delays or unexpected problems associated with repairs or enhancements of facilities in which such products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold; loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites; cyber incidents, including the disruption or shutdown of computer systems or other information technology systems at our offices, plants, warehouses, distribution centers or other facilities or those of our suppliers and other third parties who make, manufacture, transport, distribute and sell products in our portfolio; industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; telecommunications failures; power or water shortages; strikes and other labor disputes; or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and other third parties. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore operations. product contamination or tampering or issues or concerns with respect to product quality, safety and integrity could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations (whether or not valid) of product quality issues, mislabeling, misbranding, spoilage, allergens, adulteration or contamination with respect to products in our portfolio may reduce demand for such products, and cause production and delivery disruptions or increase costs, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the products in our portfolio are mislabeled or become unfit for consumption or cause injury, illness or death, or if appropriate resources are not devoted to product quality and safety (particularly as we expand our portfolio into new categories) or to comply with changing food safety requirements, we could decide to, or be required to, recall products in our portfolio and/or we may be subject to liability or government action, which could result in payment of damages or fines, cause certain products in our portfolio to be unavailable for a period of time, result in destruction of product inventory, or result in adverse publicity (whether or not valid), which could reduce consumer demand and 20 table of contents brand equity. moreover, even if allegations of product contamination or tampering or suggestions that our products were not fit for consumption are meritless, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against us or products in our portfolio or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. our business could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in product quality, safety and integrity generally, even if such loss of confidence is unrelated to products in our portfolio. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, if we do not have adequate insurance, if we do not have enforceable indemnification from suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or if indemnification is not available, the liability relating to such product claims or disruption as a result of recall efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are a leading global beverage, food and snack company with brands that are respected household names throughout the world. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. our reputation or brand image could be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental practices for all of our operations and activities, including with respect to human rights, child labor laws and workplace conditions and safety, or failure to require our suppliers or other third parties to do so; the failure to achieve our goals of reducing added sugars, sodium and saturated fat in certain of our products and of growing our portfolio of product choices; the failure to achieve our other sustainability goals or to be perceived as appropriately addressing matters of social responsibility; the failure to protect our intellectual property, including in the event our brands are used without our authorization; health concerns (whether or not valid) about our products or particular ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, our products, including concerns regarding whether certain of our products contribute to obesity; the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes, labeling requirements or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale, display or advertising of our products; any failure to comply, or perception of a failure to comply, with our policies and goals, including those regarding advertising to children and reducing calorie consumption from sugar-sweetened beverages; our research and development efforts; the recall (voluntary or otherwise) of any products in our portfolio; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, water, energy use and waste management; any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment, or perception of a failure to act responsibly with respect to water use and the environment; any failure to achieve our goals with respect to human rights throughout our value chain; the practices of our employees, agents, customers, distributors, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint venture partners or other third parties (including others in our industry) with respect to any of the foregoing, actual or perceived; consumer perception of our industry; consumer perception of our advertising campaigns, sponsorship arrangements or marketing programs; consumer perception of our use of social media; consumer perception of statements made by us, our employees and executives, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties (including others in our industry); or our responses or the responses of others in our industry to any of the foregoing. in addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, without limitation, anti-corruption laws, competition laws and tax laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. in the event that we or our employees engage in or are believed to have engaged in improper activities, we may be subject to regulatory proceedings, including enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences, which may cause us to suffer damage to our reputation in the united states or abroad. failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal control or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. in addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and demand 21 table of contents for water continues to rise. our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use. further, the popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. as a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us, our products, policies, practices, advertising campaigns and marketing programs or sponsorship arrangements; our use of social media or of posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; consumer perception of any of the foregoing, or failure by us to respond effectively to any of the foregoing, may also generate adverse publicity (whether or not valid) that could damage our reputation. damage to our reputation or brand image or loss of consumer confidence in our products or employees for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or effectively manage divestitures or refranchisings, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, refranchisings and other strategic transactions. potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things: our ability to realize the full extent of the expected returns, benefits, cost savings or synergies as a result of a transaction, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with a transaction; and diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations. with respect to acquisitions, the following factors also pose potential risks: our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the acquired company's manufacturing, distribution, sales, accounting, financial reporting and administrative support activities and information technology systems with our company; our ability to successfully operate in new categories or territories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting, environmental compliance, health and safety compliance and compliance with other laws and regulations), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between us and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures and avoiding increased operating expenses; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; retaining existing distributors; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition; and other unanticipated problems or liabilities, such as contingent liabilities and litigation. with respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, resources or values as we do. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. business decisions or other actions or omissions of our joint venture partners may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us or otherwise damage our reputation and brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the united states increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the united states, including fluctuations in exchange rates and 22 table of contents compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and laws and regulations outside the united states. with respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we may not be able to complete or effectively manage such transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all and may fail to achieve the anticipated benefits or cost savings from the divestiture or refranchising. further, as divestitures and refranchisings may reduce our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain may adversely impact our sales or business performance. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, or if a divestiture or refranchising is not successfully completed or managed or does not result in the benefits or cost savings we expect, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. a change in our estimates and underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses could result in an impairment charge, which could materially affect our results of operations. we conduct impairment tests on our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets annually, during our third quarter, or more frequently, if circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or that an other-than-temporary impairment exists. any changes in our estimates or underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our reporting units or in determining the fair value of any such reporting unit, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets, could adversely affect our results of operations. factors that could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: significant negative economic or industry trends or competitive operating conditions; significant macroeconomic conditions that may result in a future increase in the weighted-average cost of capital used to estimate fair value; and significant changes in the nature and timing of decisions regarding assets or markets that do not perform consistent with our expectations, including factors we use to estimate future levels of sales, operating profit or cash flows. future impairment charges could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods recognized. increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or disagreements with tax authorities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. increases in income tax rates or other changes in income tax laws in any particular jurisdiction could reduce our after-tax income from such jurisdiction and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations outside the united states generate a significant portion of our income. in addition, the united states and many of the other countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, including countries in which we have significant operations, have recently made or are actively considering changes to existing tax laws. for example, on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act (tcj act) was signed into law in the united states. the changes in the tcj act are broad and complex and we continue to examine the impact the tcj act may have on our business and financial results. among its many provisions, the tcj act imposed a mandatory one-time transition tax on undistributed international earnings regardless of whether they are repatriated, reduced the u.s. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, imposed limitations on the deductibility of interest and certain other corporate deductions, and moved from a worldwide system of taxation that generally allows deferral of u.s. tax on international earnings until repatriated to a territorial /dividend exemption system with a minimum tax that will subject international earnings to u.s. tax when earned. in accordance with applicable sec guidance, we recorded a provisional net tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2017 resulting from the enactment of the tcj act. this provisional expense is subject to change, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in estimates, 23 table of contents interpretations and assumptions we have made, changes in internal revenue service (irs) interpretations, the issuance of new guidance, legislative actions, changes in accounting standards or related interpretations in response to the tcj act and future actions by states within the united states that have not currently adopted the tcj act. for further information regarding the potential impact of the tcj act, see our liquidity and capital resources and our critical accounting policies in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. additional changes in the u.s. tax regime or in how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings, including changes in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the irs and other taxing authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes both within and outside the united states. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the adoption of new or reformed tax legislation or regulation, may make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation could differ from our historical provisions and accruals, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, in connection with the organisation for economic co-operation and development base erosion and profit shifting project, companies are required to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world, which may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in various countries. failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity initiatives or global operating model could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our future success and earnings growth depend, in part, on our ability to continue to reduce costs and improve efficiencies. our productivity initiatives help support our growth initiatives and contribute to our results of operations. we continue to implement strategic plans that we believe will position our business for future success and long-term sustainable growth by allowing us to achieve a lower cost structure and operate more efficiently in the highly competitive beverage, food and snack categories and markets. we are also continuing to implement our global operating model to improve efficiency, decision making, innovation and brand management across the global pepsico organization to enable us to compete more effectively. further, in order to continue to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts and our global operating model, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. some of these measures could yield unintended consequences, such as business disruptions, distraction of management and employees, reduced employee morale and productivity, and unexpected additional employee attrition, including the inability to attract or retain key personnel. it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plans, including to effectively manage personnel adjustments and transitions resulting from these initiatives and increased competition for employees with the skills necessary to implement our plans. if we are unable to successfully implement our productivity initiatives and global operating model as planned, fail to implement these initiatives as timely as we anticipate, do not achieve expected savings as a result of these initiatives or incur higher than expected or unanticipated costs in implementing these initiatives, fail to identify and implement additional productivity opportunities in the future, or fail to successfully manage business disruptions or unexpected employee consequences on our workforce, morale or productivity, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to recruit, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our continued growth requires us to recruit, hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. we compete to recruit and hire new employees and then must train them and develop 24 table of contents their skills and competencies. our employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies and our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to retain, develop and motivate highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. any unplanned turnover or unsuccessful implementation of our succession plans to backfill current leadership positions, including the chief executive officer, or to hire and retain a highly skilled and diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage or result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. the loss of, or a significant reduction in sales to, any key customer or disruption in the retail landscape, including rapid growth in hard discounters and the e-commerce channel, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, hard discounters, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including wal-mart, to compete effectively. any inability to resolve a significant dispute with any of our key customers, a change in the business condition (financial or otherwise) of any of our key customers, even if unrelated to us, a significant reduction in sales to any key customer, or the loss of any of our key customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, our industry has been affected by changes to the retail landscape, including the rapid growth in sales through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications as well as the integration of physical and digital operations among retailers. we are making significant investments in attracting talent to and building our global e-commerce capabilities. although we are engaged in e-commerce with respect to many of our products, if we are unable to maintain and develop successful relationships with existing and new e-commerce retailers or otherwise adapt to the growing e-commerce landscape, while simultaneously maintaining relationships with our key customers operating in traditional retail channels, we may be disadvantaged in certain channels and with certain customers and consumers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, the growth in e-commerce may result in consumer price deflation, which may affect our relationships with key retail customers. if these e-commerce retailers were to take significant market share away from traditional retailers and/or we fail to adapt to the rapidly changing retail and e-commerce landscapes, our ability to maintain and grow our share of sales or volume and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. further, the retail landscape continues to be impacted by the increased consolidation of retail ownership and purchasing power, particularly in north america, europe and latin america, resulting in large retailers with increased purchasing power, which may impact our ability to compete in these areas. such retailers may demand improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks, other distribution channels such as e-commerce, or private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. in addition, the growth of hard discounters that are focused on limiting the number of items they sell and selling predominantly private label brands may reduce our ability to sell our products through such retailers. failure to appropriately respond to any of the foregoing, including failure to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers, could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space and product availability at our retailers, adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow our share of sales or volume, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 25 table of contents our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings. rating agencies routinely evaluate us, and their ratings of our long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our cash generating capability, levels of indebtedness, policies with respect to shareholder distributions and our financial strength generally, as well as factors beyond our control, such as the then-current state of the economy and our industry generally. any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, whether as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our control, could increase our future borrowing costs, impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all, and result in a reduction in our liquidity. we expect to maintain tier 1 commercial paper access, which we believe will facilitate appropriate financial flexibility and ready access to global credit markets at favorable interest rates. however, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade. an increase in our borrowing costs, limitations on our ability to access the global capital and credit markets or a reduction in our liquidity could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. if we are not able to successfully implement shared services or utilize information technology systems and networks effectively, our ability to conduct our business may be negatively impacted. we have entered into agreements with third-party service providers to utilize certain information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and may enter into agreements for shared services in other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. in addition, we utilize cloud-based services and systems and networks managed by third-party vendors to process, transmit and store information and to conduct certain of our business activities and transactions with employees, customers, consumers and other third parties. if any of these third-party service providers or vendors do not perform effectively, or if we fail to adequately monitor their performance, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings or we may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers and our reputation could be harmed. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breaches or otherwise, adverse effects on financial reporting, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation, which could have a negative impact on employee morale. we continue on our multi-year business transformation initiative to migrate certain of our systems, including our financial processing systems, to enterprise-wide systems solutions. these systems implementations are part of our ongoing global business transformation initiative, and we plan to continue implementing such systems throughout other parts of our businesses. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently, and remain in step with the changing needs of our business, which could result in the loss of customers or consumers and revenue. in addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers or consumers and revenue. in connection with these implementations and resulting business process changes, we continue to enhance the design and documentation of business processes and controls, including our internal control over financial reporting processes, to maintain effective controls over our financial reporting. to date, this transition has not materially affected, and we do not expect it to materially affect, our internal 26 table of contents control over financial reporting. fluctuations in exchange rates impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the united states, where the functional currency is other than the u.s. dollar, are translated into u.s. dollars. our operations outside of the united states, particularly in mexico, russia, canada, the united kingdom and brazil , generate a significant portion of our net revenue. in addition, we purchase many of the ingredients, raw materials and commodities used in our business in numerous markets and in numerous currencies. fluctuations in exchange rates, including as a result of currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. climate change, water scarcity or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change or water scarcity may negatively affect our business and operations or damage our reputation. there is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, oranges and other fruits and potatoes. natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, such as a hurricane, earthquake or flooding, may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain and unfavorably impact the demand for, or our consumer's ability to purchase, our products. the predicted effects of climate change may also exacerbate challenges regarding the availability and quality of water. as demand for water access continues to increase around the world, we may be subject to decreased availability of water, deteriorated quality of water or less favorable pricing for water, which could adversely impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. concern over climate change may result in new or increased regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. in the event that such regulation is more stringent than current regulatory obligations or the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor and improve our energy efficiency and water conservation, we may experience disruptions in, or significant increases in our costs of, operation and delivery and we may be required to make additional investments in facilities and equipment or relocate our facilities. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. as a result, the effects of climate change or water scarcity could negatively affect our business and operations. in addition, any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment or perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to act responsibly with respect to water use and the environment or to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning climate change or water scarcity could result in adverse publicity and could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. there is also increased focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, customers and consumers on these and other environmental sustainability matters, including deforestation, land use, climate impact and water use. our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to our impact on the environment. 27 table of contents a portion of our workforce is represented by unions. failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages, could cause our business to suffer. many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and other employees may seek to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. strikes or work stoppages or other business interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms or if we are unable to otherwise manage changes in, or that affect, our workforce, which could impair manufacturing and distribution of our products or result in a loss of sales, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. the terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new collective bargaining agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency or to adapt to changing business needs or strategy. if we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the value of our products or brands, or our competitive position, could be reduced, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets that are important to our business and relate to a variety of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and trade secrets, including our ingredient formulas, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands, or our competitive position, could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, if, in the course of developing new products or improving the quality of existing products, we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, such finding could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations and may limit our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products. potential liabilities and costs from litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries and investigations, including but not limited to matters related to our advertising, marketing or commercial practices, product labels, claims and ingredients including sugar, sodium and saturated fat, our intellectual property rights, alleged infringement or misappropriation by us of intellectual property rights of others, environmental, privacy, employment, tax and insurance matters and matters relating to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. we evaluate such matters to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses and establish reserves as appropriate. these matters are inherently uncertain and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in these matters, or that our assessment of the materiality of these matters and the likely outcome or potential losses and established reserves will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such matters. in the event that management's assessment of actual or potential claims and proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation, claims, proceedings, inquiries or investigations that are material arise in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. responding to litigation, claims, 28 table of contents proceedings, inquiries, and investigations, even those that are ultimately non-meritorious, may also require us to incur significant expense and devote significant resources, and may generate adverse publicity that may damage our reputation or brand image, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many factors may adversely affect the price of our publicly traded securities. many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and publicly traded debt. such factors, some of which are beyond our control, may include, but are not limited to: unfavorable economic conditions; changes in financial or tax reporting and changes in accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results; investor perceptions of our business, strategies and performance or those of our competitors; actions by shareholders or others seeking to influence our business strategies; speculation by the media or investment community regarding our business, strategies and performance or those of our competitors; developments relating to pending litigation, claims, investigations or inquiries; trading activity in our securities or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our securities; changes in our credit ratings; the impact of our share repurchase programs or dividend policy; and the outcome of referenda and elections. in addition, corporate actions, such as those we may or may not take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure and our strategy, including as a result of business, legal, regulatory and tax considerations, may not have the impact we intend and may adversely affect the price of our securities. the above factors, as well as the other risks included in this item 1a. risk factors, could adversely affect the price of our securities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 132 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks.risk factors 10 risk factors and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business our business risks. investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all-inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance. part i item 1. business. when used in this report, the terms we, us, our, pepsico and the company mean pepsico, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively. certain terms used in this annual report on form 10-k are defined in the glossary included in item 7. of this report. company overview we were incorporated in delaware in 1919 and reincorporated in north carolina in 1986. we are a leading global food and beverage company with a complementary portfolio of brands, including frito-lay, gatorade, pepsi-cola, quaker and tropicana. through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third parties, we make, market, distribute and sell a wide variety of convenient beverages, foods and snacks, serving customers and consumers in more than 200 countries and territories. our operations we are organized into six reportable segments (also referred to as divisions), as follows: 1) frito-lay north america (flna), which includes our branded food and snack businesses in the united states and canada; 2) quaker foods north america (qfna), which includes our cereal, rice, pasta and other branded food businesses in the united states and canada; 3) north america beverages (nab), which includes our beverage businesses in the united states and canada; 4) latin america, which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in latin america; 5) europe sub-saharan africa (essa), which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in europe and sub-saharan africa; and 6) asia, middle east and north africa (amena), which includes all of our beverage, food and snack 2 table of contents businesses in asia, middle east and north africa. frito-lay north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, flna makes, markets, distributes and sells branded snack foods. these foods include branded dips, cheetos cheese-flavored snacks, doritos tortilla chips, fritos corn chips, lay's potato chips, ruffles potato chips and tostitos tortilla chips. flna's branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. in addition, flna's joint venture with strauss group makes, markets, distributes and sells sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. quaker foods north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, qfna makes, markets, distributes and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. qfna's products include aunt jemima mixes and syrups, cap'n crunch cereal, life cereal, quaker chewy granola bars, quaker grits, quaker oat squares, quaker oatmeal, quaker rice cakes, quaker simply granola and rice-a-roni side dishes. these branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. north america beverages either independently or in conjunction with third parties, nab makes, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including aquafina, diet mountain dew, diet pepsi, gatorade, mountain dew, pepsi, propel, sierra mist and tropicana. nab also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea and coffee products through joint ventures with unilever (under the lipton brand name) and starbucks, respectively. further, nab manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from keurig dr pepper inc., including crush, dr pepper and schweppes, and certain juice brands licensed from dole food company, inc. (dole) and ocean spray cranberries, inc. (ocean spray). nab operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities and sells branded finished goods directly to independent distributors and retailers. nab also sells concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized and independent bottlers, who in turn sell our branded finished goods to independent distributors and retailers in certain markets. latin america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, latin america makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of snack food brands including cheetos, doritos, emperador, lay's, marias gamesa, rosquinhas mabel, ruffles, sabritas, saladitas and tostitos, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks. latin america also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7up, diet pepsi, gatorade, h2oh!, manzanita sol, mirinda, pepsi, pepsi black and toddy. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. latin america also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). europe sub-saharan africa either independently or in conjunction with third parties, essa makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including cheetos, chipita, doritos, lay's, ruffles and walkers, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses, as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. essa also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7up, diet pepsi, mirinda, pepsi, pepsi max and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. in certain markets, however, essa operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. essa also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, 3 table of contents markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). in addition, essa makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading dairy products including agusha, chudo and domik v derevne. in december 2018, we acquired sodastream international ltd. (sodastream), a manufacturer and distributor of sparkling water makers. sodastream products are included within essa's beverage business. see note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our acquisition of sodastream. asia, middle east and north africa either independently or in conjunction with third parties, amena makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including cheetos, chipsy, doritos, kurkure and lay's, as well as many quaker branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses, as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. amena also makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7up, aquafina, mirinda, mountain dew, pepsi, sting and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. in certain markets, however, amena operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. amena also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). further, we license the tropicana brand for use in china on co-branded juice products in connection with a strategic alliance with tingyi (cayman islands) holding corp. (tingyi). our distribution network our products are primarily brought to market through direct-store-delivery (dsd), customer warehouse and distributor networks. the distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. direct-store-delivery we, our independent bottlers and our distributors operate dsd systems that deliver beverages, foods and snacks directly to retail stores where the products are merchandised by our employees or our independent bottlers. dsd enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. dsd is especially well-suited to products that are restocked often and respond to in-store promotion and merchandising. customer warehouse some of our products are delivered from our manufacturing plants and warehouses to customer warehouses. these less costly systems generally work best for products that are less fragile and perishable, and have lower turnover. distributor networks we distribute many of our products through third-party distributors. third-party distributors are particularly effective when greater distribution reach can be achieved by including a wide range of products on the delivery vehicles. for example, our foodservice and vending business distributes beverages, foods and snacks to restaurants, businesses, schools and stadiums through third-party foodservice and vending distributors and operators. our products are also available on a growing number of e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications as consumer consumption patterns continue to change and retail increasingly expands online. ingredients and other supplies the principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit, oranges and other fruits, oats, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and 4 table of contents wheat. we also use water in the manufacturing of our products. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (pet) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel, electricity and natural gas are also important commodities for our businesses due to their use in our and our business partners' facilities and the vehicles delivering our products. we employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages that would prevent us from meeting our requirements. many of these ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures. in addition, risk to our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. when prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. in addition, we continue to make investments to improve the sustainability and resources of our agricultural supply chain, including the development of our initiative to advance sustainable farming practices by our suppliers and expanding it globally. see note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our exposure to commodity costs. our brands and intellectual property rights we own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including 1893, agusha, amp energy, aquafina, aquafina flavorsplash, arto lifewater, aunt jemima, bare, bubly, cap'n crunch, cheetos, chester's, chipsy, chokis, chudo, cracker jack, crunchy, diet mountain dew, diet mug, diet pepsi, diet sierra mist, diet 7up (outside the united states), domik v derevne, doritos, duyvis, elma chips, emperador, frito-lay, fritos, fruktovy sad, g2, gamesa, gatorade, grandma's, h2oh!, health warrior, imunele, izze, j-7 tonus, kas, kevita, kurkure, lay's, life, lifewtr, lubimy, manzanita sol, marias gamesa, matutano, mirinda, miss vickie's, mother's, mountain dew, mountain dew code red, mountain dew ice, mountain dew kickstart, mug, munchies, naked, near east, o.n.e., paso de los toros, pasta roni, pepsi, pepsi black, pepsi max, pepsi next, pepsi zero sugar, propel, quaker, quaker chewy, rice-a-roni, rold gold, rosquinhas mabel, ruffles, sabritas, sakata, saladitas, sandora, santitas, 7up (outside the united states), 7up free (outside the united states), sierra mist, simba, smartfood, smith's, snack a jacks, sobe, sodastream, sonric's, stacy's, sting, stubborn soda, sunchips, toddy, toddynho, tostitos, trop 50, tropicana, tropicana farmstand, tropicana pure premium, tropicana twister, v water, vesely molochnik, walkers and ya. we also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products in certain markets, including dole and ocean spray. we also distribute rockstar energy drinks, muscle milk protein shakes and various keurig dr pepper inc. brands, including dr pepper in certain markets, crush and schweppes. joint ventures in which we have an ownership interest either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as lipton, sabra and starbucks. trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. we have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. in addition, we license the use of our trademarks on merchandise that is sold at retail, which enhances brand awareness. we either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to certain of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. some of these patents are licensed to others. seasonality our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. for instance, our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food and dairy sales are higher in the cooler months. weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. however, taken as a whole, seasonality has not had a material impact on our 5 table of contents consolidated financial results. our customers our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, hard discounters, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. we normally grant our independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. these arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality. we also grant distribution rights to our independent bottlers for certain beverage products bearing our trademarks for specified geographic areas. we rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our products to the consumer. for our independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include volume-based rebates, product placement fees, promotions and displays. for our independent bottlers, these incentives are referred to as bottler funding and are negotiated annually with each bottler to support a variety of trade and consumer programs, such as consumer incentives, advertising support, new product support, and vending and cooler equipment placement. consumer incentives include coupons, pricing discounts and promotions, and other promotional offers. advertising support is directed at advertising programs and supporting independent bottler media. new product support includes targeted consumer and retailer incentives and direct marketplace support, such as point-of-purchase materials, product placement fees, media and advertising. vending and cooler equipment placement programs support the acquisition and placement of vending machines and cooler equipment. the nature and type of programs vary annually. changes to the retail landscape, including increased consolidation of retail ownership, the rapid growth of sales through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, including through subscription services, the integration of physical and digital operations among retailers, as well as the growth in hard discounters, and the current economic environment continue to increase the importance of major customers. in 2018 , sales to walmart inc. (walmart), including sam's club (sam's), represented approximately 13% of our consolidated net revenue. our top five retail customers represented approximately 33% of our 2018 net revenue in north america, with walmart (including sam's) representing approximately 19% . these percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers, which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. see off-balance-sheet arrangements in our financial results our liquidity and capital resources in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for more information on our independent bottlers. our competition our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and economy brands and other competitors. in many countries in which our products are sold, including the united states, the coca-cola company is our primary beverage competitor. other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, campbell soup company, conagra brands, inc., kellogg company, keurig dr pepper inc., the kraft heinz company, link snacks, inc., mondel z international, inc., monster beverage corporation, nestl s.a. and red bull gmbh. many of our food and snack products hold significant leadership positions in the food and snack industry in the united states and worldwide. in 2018 , we and the coca-cola company represented approximately 22% and 20%, respectively, of the u.s. liquid refreshment beverage category by estimated retail sales in measured 6 table of contents channels, according to information resources, inc. however, the coca-cola company has significant carbonated soft drink (csd) share advantage in many markets outside the united states. our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition and loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness and the continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of distributing and purchasing products. success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, effective introduction of new products and reformulations of existing products, the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging, pricing, increased efficiency in production techniques, new vending and dispensing equipment and brand and trademark development and protection. we believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allows us to compete effectively. research and development we engage in a variety of research and development activities and invest in innovation globally with the goal of meeting changing consumer demands and preferences and accelerating sustainable growth. these activities principally involve: development of new ingredients, flavors and products; reformulation and improvement in the quality and appeal of existing products; improvement and modernization of manufacturing processes, including cost reduction; improvements in product quality, safety and integrity; development of, and improvements in, dispensing equipment, packaging technology (including investments in recycling-focused technologies), package design (including development of sustainable, bio-based packaging) and portion sizes; efforts focused on identifying opportunities to transform, grow and broaden our product portfolio, including by developing products with improved nutrition profiles that reduce added sugars, sodium or saturated fat, including through the use of sweetener alternatives and flavor modifiers and innovation in existing sweeteners, further expanding our beyond the bottle portfolio (including through our acquisition of sodastream) and offering more products with positive nutrition including whole grains, fruits and vegetables, dairy, protein and hydration; investments in building our capabilities to support our global e-commerce business; and improvements in energy efficiency and efforts focused on reducing our impact on the environment. our research centers are located around the world, including in brazil, china, india, ireland, mexico, russia, the united kingdom and the united states, and leverage nutrition science, food science, engineering and consumer insights to meet our strategy to continue to develop nutritious and convenient beverages, foods and snacks. in 2018 , we continued to refine our beverage, food and snack portfolio to meet changing consumer demands by reducing added sugars in many of our beverages and sodium and saturated fat in many of our foods and snacks, and by developing a broader portfolio of product choices, including: continuing to expand our beverage options that contain no high-fructose corn syrup and that are made with natural flavors; expanding our state-of-the-art food and beverage healthy vending initiative to increase the availability of convenient and affordable nutrition; further expanding our portfolio of nutritious products by building on our important nutrition platforms and brands quaker (grains), tropicana (juices, lemonades, fruit and vegetable drinks), gatorade (sports nutrition for athletes), naked juice (cold-pressed juices and smoothies), kevita (probiotics, tonics and fermented teas), bare (baked apple chips and other baked produce) and health warrior (nutrition bars); further expanding our whole grain products globally; and further expanding our portfolio of nutritious products in growing categories, such as dairy, hummus and other refrigerated dips, and baked grain snacks. in addition, we continued to make investments to reduce our impact on the environment, including: efforts to conserve raw materials and energy, such as by working to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions across our global businesses, by helping to protect and conserve global water supply especially in high-water-risk locations (including replenishing watersheds that source our operations in high-water-risk locations and 7 table of contents promoting the efficient use of water in our agricultural supply chain), and by incorporating improvements in the sustainability and resources of our agricultural supply chain into our operations; efforts to reduce waste generated by our operations and disposed of in landfills; efforts to support increased packaging recovery, recycling rates and the amount of recycled content in our packaging; efforts to increase energy efficiency, including the increased use of renewable energy and resources; efforts to support sustainable agriculture by expanding best practices with our growers and suppliers; and efforts to optimize packaging technology and design to minimize the amount of plastic in our packaging, and make our packaging increasingly recoverable or recyclable with lower environmental impact, including continuing to invest in developing compostable and biodegradable packaging. regulatory matters the conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, content, quality, safety, transportation, packaging, disposal, recycling and use of our products, as well as our employment and occupational health and safety practices and protection of personal information, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in the more than 200 other countries and territories in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. it is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. the u.s. laws and regulations that we are subject to include: the federal food, drug and cosmetic act and various state laws governing food safety; the food safety modernization act; the occupational safety and health act; various federal, state and local environmental protection laws, as discussed below; the federal motor carrier safety act; the federal trade commission act; the lanham act; various federal and state laws and regulations governing competition and trade practices; various federal and state laws and regulations governing our employment practices, including those related to equal employment opportunity, such as the equal employment opportunity act and the national labor relations act and those related to overtime compensation, such as the fair labor standards act; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations, including laws regarding the import or export of our products or ingredients used in our products and tariffs; laws regulating the sale of certain of our products in schools; and laws relating to the payment of taxes. we are also required to comply with the foreign corrupt practices act and the trade sanctions reform and export enhancement act. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including state consumer protection laws such as proposition 65 in california, which requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the state of california as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects, unless the amount of such substance in the product is below a safe harbor level. we are also subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside the united states, including but not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, international trade and tariffs, occupational health and safety, competition, anti-corruption and data privacy, including the european union general data protection regulation. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws, including the u.k. bribery act. we rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel and other experts, to guide our businesses in complying with the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. in addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed, or are considering imposing, new or increased taxes on the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products. these taxes vary in scope and form: some apply to all beverages, including non-caloric beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). similarly, some measures apply a single tax rate per liquid ounce while others 8 table of contents apply a graduated tax rate depending upon the amount of added sugar in the beverage and some apply a flat tax rate on beverages containing a particular substance or ingredient. in addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed, or are considering imposing, product labeling or warning requirements or other limitations on the marketing or sale of certain of our products as a result of ingredients or substances contained in such products or the audience to whom products are marketed. these types of provisions have required that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns consumers to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products. it is possible that similar or more restrictive requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. in addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed or are considering imposing regulations designed to increase recycling rates or encourage waste reduction. these regulations vary in scope and form from deposit return systems designed to incentivize the return of beverage containers, to extended producer responsibility policies and even bans on the use of some plastic beverage bottles and other single-use plastics. it is possible that similar or more restrictive requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. we are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the united states and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater discharge and air emissions. in the united states, our facilities must comply with the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the resource conservation and recovery act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, storage, release and disposal of wastes generated onsite and sent to third-party owned and operated offsite licensed facilities and our facilities outside the united states must comply with similar laws and regulations. in addition, continuing concern over climate change may result in new or increased legal and regulatory requirements (in or outside of the united states) to reduce or mitigate the potential effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. our policy is to abide by all applicable environmental laws and regulations, and we have internal programs in place with respect to our global environmental compliance. we have made, and plan to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. while these expenditures have not had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date, changes in environmental compliance requirements, and any expenditures necessary to comply with such requirements, could adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. while these environmental remediation and indemnification obligations cannot be predicted with certainty, such obligations have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. in addition to the discussion in this section, see also item 1a. risk factors. employees as of december 29, 2018 , we and our consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 267,000 people worldwide, including approximately 114,000 people within the united states. in certain countries, our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. we or our subsidiaries are party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. we expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. we believe that relations with our employees are generally good. available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . 9 table of contents our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act), are also available free of charge on our internet site at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. investors should note that we currently announce material information to our investors and others using filings with the sec, press releases, public conference calls, webcasts or our corporate website ( www.pepsico.com ), including news and announcements regarding our financial performance, key personnel, our brands and our business strategy. information that we post on our corporate website could be deemed material to investors. we encourage investors, the media, our customers, consumers, business partners and others interested in us to review the information we post on these channels. we may from time to time update the list of channels we will use to communicate information that could be deemed material and will post information about any such change on www.pepsico.com . the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, including the management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations section and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. any of the factors described below could occur or continue to occur and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our publicly traded securities. the risks below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may occur or become material in the future and may also adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our publicly traded securities. therefore, historical operating results, financial and business performance, events and trends may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results, financial and business performance, events or trends. demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate, market or distribute our products effectively, and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are a global food and beverage company operating in highly competitive categories and markets. to generate revenues and profits, we rely on continued demand for our products and therefore must understand our customers and consumers and sell products that appeal to them in the sales channel in which they prefer to shop or browse for such products. in general, changes in consumption in our product categories or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. demand for our products depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to shifts in consumer trends and preferences, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are concerned with: health and wellness (including products that have less added sugars, sodium and saturated fat); convenience (including responding to changes in in-home and on-the-go consumption patterns and methods of distribution of our products to customers and consumers, including through e-commerce and hard discounters); or the location of origin or source of ingredients and products (including the environmental impact related to production of our products). consumer preferences have been evolving, and are expected to continue to evolve, due to a variety of factors, including: changes in consumer demographics, including the aging of the general population and the emergence of the millennial and younger generations who have differing spending, consumption and purchasing habits; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the nutrition profile of products, including the presence of added sugar, sodium and saturated fat in certain of our products; growing demand for organic or locally sourced ingredients, or consumer concerns or perceptions (whether or not valid) regarding the 10 table of contents health effects of ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, such as 4-mei, acrylamide, artificial flavors and colors, artificial sweeteners, aspartame, caffeine, furfuryl alcohol, high-fructose corn syrup, partially hydrolyzed oils, saturated fat, sodium, sugar, trans fats or other product ingredients, substances or attributes, including genetically engineered ingredients; taxes or other restrictions, including labeling requirements, imposed on our products; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding packaging materials, including single-use and other plastic packaging, and their environmental impact; changes in package or portion size; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns; changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; the continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of purchasing products; negative publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory actions, litigation against us or other companies in our industry or negative or inaccurate posts or comments in the media, including social media, about us, our employees, our products or advertising campaigns and marketing programs; perception of our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or our respective social media posts, business practices or other information disseminated by or regarding them or us; product boycotts; or a downturn in economic conditions. any of these factors may reduce consumers' willingness to purchase our products and any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products or erode our competitive and financial position and could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. demand for our products is also dependent in part on product quality, product and marketing innovation and production and distribution, including our ability to: maintain a robust pipeline of new products; improve the quality of existing products; extend our portfolio of products in growing markets and categories (through acquisitions, such as sodastream, and innovation, such as increasing non-carbonated beverage offerings and other alternatives to, or reformulations of, carbonated beverage offerings); respond to cultural differences and regional consumer preferences (whether through developing or acquiring new products that are responsive to such preferences); monitor and adjust our use of ingredients and packaging materials (including to respond to applicable regulations); develop sweetener alternatives and innovation; increase the recyclability or recoverability of our packaging; improve the production and distribution of our products; respond to competitive product and pricing pressures and changes in distribution channels, including in the e-commerce channel; and implement effective advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including successfully adapting to a rapidly changing media environment through the use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. although we devote significant resources to the items mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop, launch, maintain or distribute successful new products or variants of existing products in a timely manner (including correctly anticipating or effectively reacting to changes in consumer preferences) or to develop and effectively execute advertising and marketing campaigns that appeal to customers and consumers. our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products or effectively market or distribute our products could reduce demand for our products, result in inventory write-offs and erode our competitive and financial position and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in laws and regulations relating to the use or disposal of plastics or other packaging of our products could continue to increase our costs, reduce demand for our products or otherwise have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. certain of our food and beverage products are sold in plastic or other packaging designed to be recoverable for recycling but not all packaging is recovered, whether due to low value, lack of infrastructure or otherwise. in addition, certain of our packaging may currently not be recyclable, compostable or biodegradable. there is a growing concern with the accumulation of plastic and other packaging waste in the environment, 11 table of contents particularly in the world's oceans and waterways. as a result, our branded packaging waste could result in negative publicity (whether or not valid) or reduce consumer demand and overall consumption of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in response to these concerns, the united states and many other jurisdictions have imposed or are considering imposing regulations or policies designed to increase the sustainability of packaging, encourage waste reduction and increase recycling rates or facilitate the waste management process or restricting the sale of products in certain packaging. these regulations vary in scope and form from taxes or fees designed to incentivize behavior to restrictions or bans on certain products and materials. for example, the state of california is one of 10 states in the united states that have a bottle deposit return system in effect, which requires a deposit charged to consumers to incentivize the return of the beverage container. in addition, 26 markets in the european union have established extended producer responsibility policies, which make manufacturers such as us responsible for the costs of recycling products after consumers have used them. further, certain jurisdictions are considering imposing other types of regulations or policies, including packaging taxes, requirements for bottle caps to be tethered to the plastic bottle, minimum recycled content mandates, which would require packaging to include a certain percentage of post-consumer recycled material in a new package, and even bans on the use of some plastic beverage bottles and other single-use plastics. these laws and regulations, whatever their scope or form, could increase the cost of our products, reduce consumer demand and overall consumption of our products or result in negative publicity (whether or not valid), which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. while we continue to devote significant resources to increase the recyclability and sustainability of our packaging, the increased focus on reducing plastic waste may require us to increase capital expenditures, including requiring additional investments to minimize the amount of plastic across our packaging; increase the amount of recycled content in our packaging; and develop sustainable, bio-based packaging as a replacement for fossil fuel-based plastic packaging, including flexible film alternatives for our snacks packaging. our failure to minimize our plastics use, increase the amount of recycled content in our packaging or develop sustainable packaging or consumers' failure to accept such sustainable packaging could reduce consumer demand and overall consumption of our products and erode our competitive and financial position. further, our reputation could be damaged for failure to achieve our sustainability goals with respect to our plastics use, including our goal to use 25% recycled content in our plastic packaging by 2025, or if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to packaging or disposal of our products. changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the conduct of our business is subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as government entities and agencies outside the united states, including laws and regulations relating to the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, content, quality, safety, transportation, packaging, disposal, recycling and use of our products, as well as our employment and occupational health and safety practices and protection of personal information. in addition, in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. many of these laws and regulations have differing or conflicting legal standards across the various markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold and, in certain markets, such as developing and emerging markets, may be less developed or certain. for example, products containing genetically engineered ingredients are subject to differing regulations and restrictions in the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, as is the packaging, disposal and recyclability of our products. for example, five provinces in canada, covering most of the canadian market, have 12 table of contents established extended producer responsibility policies, which make manufacturers such as us responsible for the costs of recycling products after consumers have used them. in addition, these laws and regulations and related interpretations may change, sometimes dramatically and unexpectedly, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. such changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to product labeling, advertising and marketing practices, including restrictions on the audience to whom products are marketed; laws and treaties related to international trade, including laws regarding the import or export of our products or ingredients used in our products and tariffs; laws and programs aimed at reducing, restricting or eliminating ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, certain of our products; laws and programs aimed at discouraging the consumption or altering the package or portion size of certain of our products, including laws imposing restrictions on the use of government funds or programs to purchase certain of our products; increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving product claims and concerns (whether or not valid) regarding the effects on health of ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, certain of our products, including without limitation those found in energy drinks; state consumer protection laws; laws regulating the protection of personal information; cyber-security regulations; regulatory initiatives, including the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other measures impacting the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products; accounting rules and interpretations; employment laws; privacy laws; laws regulating the price we may charge for our products; laws regulating water rights and access to and use of water or utilities; environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water treatment and discharge of wastewater and air emissions and laws relating to the disposal, recovery or recycling of our products and their packaging. changes in regulatory requirements or changing interpretations thereof, and differing or competing regulations and standards across the markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, may result in higher compliance costs, capital expenditures and higher production costs, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. the imposition of new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, including taxes, labeling, product, production, recovery or recycling requirements, or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale or advertisement of certain of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products, commodities used in the production of our products or use, disposal, recovery or recyclability of our products and their packaging, may further alter the way in which we do business and, therefore, may continue to increase our costs or liabilities or reduce demand for our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if one jurisdiction imposes or proposes to impose new requirements or restrictions, other jurisdictions may follow. for example, if one jurisdiction imposes a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages or foods, or imposes a specific labeling or warning requirement, other jurisdictions may impose similar or other measures that impact the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products. the foregoing may result in decreased demand for our products, adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of ingredients or substances in our products (whether or not valid). in addition, studies (whether or not scientifically valid) have been and continue to be underway by third parties purporting to assess the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in certain of our products or packaging materials, such as 4-mei, acrylamide, caffeine, glyphosate, furfuryl alcohol, added sugars, sodium, saturated fat and plastic. third parties have also published documents or studies claiming (whether or not valid) that taxes can address consumer consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and foods high in sugar, sodium or saturated fat. if, as a result of these studies and documents or otherwise, there is an increase in consumer concerns (whether or not valid) about the health implications of consumption of certain of our products, an increase in the number of jurisdictions that impose taxes on our products, or an increase in new labeling, product or production requirements or other restrictions on the manufacturing, sale or display of our products, demand for our products could decline, or we could be subject 13 table of contents to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, suppliers, or other third parties with whom we do business could take actions, intentional or not, that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations or could fail to maintain required documentation sufficient to evidence our compliance with applicable laws or regulations. failure to comply with such laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, injunctions, product recalls, penalties, disgorgement of profits or activity restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or assets or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on the sales of products in our portfolio or could lead to damage to our reputation. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. we cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our estimates or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes aimed at our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, new or increased taxes on the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products. these taxes vary in scope and form: some apply to all beverages, including non-caloric beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). similarly, some measures apply a single tax rate per liquid ounce while others apply a graduated tax rate depending upon the amount of added sugar in the beverage and some apply a flat tax rate on beverages containing a particular substance or ingredient. for example, effective january 2018, the city of seattle, washington in the united states enacted a per-ounce surcharge on all sugar-sweetened beverages. by contrast, france revised an existing flat tax to become a graduated tax, effective july 2018, in which the per-ounce tax rate is tied to the amount of added sugar present in the beverage: the higher the amount of added sugar, the higher the per-ounce tax rate, while saudi arabia enacted, effective june 2017, a flat tax rate of 50%, and jordan increased, effective january 2018, its flat tax from 10% to 20%, on the retail price of carbonated soft drinks. these tax measures, whatever their scope or form, could increase the cost of our products, reduce consumer demand and overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether based on scientific fact or not) or leave consumers with the perception (whether or not valid) that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs. such factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of our products may reduce demand for such products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, product labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or 14 table of contents sale of certain of our products as a result of ingredients or substances contained in such products. these types of provisions have required that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns consumers to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products. for example, in california in the united states, proposition 65 requires a specific warning on or relating to any product that contains a substance listed by the state of california as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects or other reproductive harm, unless the level of such substance in the product is below a safe harbor level established by the state of california. in addition, a number of jurisdictions, both in and outside the united states, have imposed or are considering imposing labeling requirements, including color-coded labeling of certain food and beverage products where colors such as red, yellow and green are used to indicate various levels of a particular ingredient, such as sugar, sodium or saturated fat. the imposition or proposed imposition of additional product labeling or warning requirements could reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether based on scientific fact or not) or leave consumers with the perception (whether or not valid) that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs. such factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and economy brands and other competitors. in many countries in which our products are sold, including the united states, the coca-cola company is our primary beverage competitor. other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, campbell soup company, conagra brands, inc., kellogg company, keurig dr pepper inc., the kraft heinz company, link snacks, inc., mondel z international, inc., monster beverage corporation, nestl s.a. and red bull gmbh. our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition and loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness and the continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of distributing and purchasing products. if we are unable to effectively promote our existing products or introduce new products, if our advertising or marketing campaigns are not effective, if our competitors spend more aggressively than we do or if we are otherwise unable to effectively respond to pricing pressure or compete effectively (including in distributing our products effectively and cost efficiently through all existing and emerging channels of trade, including through e-commerce and hard discounters), we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or category share or we may need to increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity initiatives or operating model could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our future success and earnings growth depend, in part, on our ability to continue to reduce costs and improve efficiencies, including implementing shared business service organizational models. our productivity initiatives help support our growth initiatives and contribute to our results of operations. we continue to implement productivity initiatives that we believe will position our business for long-term sustainable growth by allowing us to achieve a lower cost structure and operate more efficiently in the highly competitive beverage, food and snack categories and markets. we are also continuing to implement our initiatives to 15 table of contents improve efficiency, decision making, innovation and brand management across our global organization to enable us to compete more effectively. further, in order to continue to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts and operating model, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. some of these measures could yield unintended consequences, such as business disruptions, distraction of management and employees, reduced employee morale and productivity, and unexpected additional employee attrition, including the inability to attract or retain key personnel. it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plans, including to effectively manage personnel adjustments and transitions resulting from these initiatives and increased competition for employees with the skills necessary to implement our plans. if we are unable to successfully implement our productivity initiatives as planned, fail to implement these initiatives as timely as we anticipate, do not achieve expected savings as a result of these initiatives or incur higher than expected or unanticipated costs in implementing these initiatives, fail to identify and implement additional productivity opportunities in the future, or fail to successfully manage business disruptions or unexpected employee consequences on our workforce, morale or productivity, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold may be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the results of elections, referendums or other political conditions (including government shutdowns) in these markets could impact how existing laws, regulations and government programs or policies are implemented or create uncertainty as to how such laws, regulations and government programs or policies may change, including with respect to tariffs, sanctions, climate change regulation, taxes, benefit programs, the movement of goods, services and people between countries and other matters, and could result in exchange rate fluctuation, volatility in global stock markets and global economic uncertainty or adversely affect demand for our products. for example, the united kingdom's pending withdrawal from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit) could lead to differing laws and regulations in the united kingdom and european union. any changes in, or the imposition of new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations due to elections, referendums or other political conditions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets. our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in developing and emerging markets, including mexico, russia, the middle east, brazil, china and india. however, there can be no assurance that our existing products, variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, distribute or sell will be accepted or be successful in any particular developing or emerging market, due to local or global competition, product price, cultural differences, consumer preferences or otherwise. the following factors could reduce demand for our products or otherwise impede the growth of our business in developing and emerging markets: unstable economic, political or social conditions; acts of war, terrorist acts, and civil unrest; increased competition; volatility in the economic growth of certain of these markets and the related impact on developed countries who export to these markets; volatile oil prices and the impact on the local economy in certain of these markets; our inability to acquire businesses, form strategic business alliances or to make necessary infrastructure investments; our inability to complete divestitures or refranchisings; imposition of new or increased labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions; our inability to hire or retain a highly skilled workforce; imposition of new or increased tariffs and other impositions on imported goods or sanctions against, or other regulations restricting contact with, certain countries in these 16 table of contents markets, or imposition of new or increased sanctions against u.s. multinational corporations or tariffs on the products of such corporations operating in these markets; actions, such as removing our products from shelves, taken by retailers in response to u.s. trade sanctions, tariffs or other governmental action or policy; foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets or the assets of our suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; imposition of taxes on our products or the ingredients or substances used in our products; government-mandated closure, or threatened closure, of our operations or the operations of our suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners, customers or other third parties; restrictions on the import or export of our products or ingredients or substances used in our products; regulations relating to the repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the united states; highly inflationary economies, devaluation or fluctuation, such as the devaluation of the russian ruble, turkish lira, brazilian real, argentine peso and the mexican peso, or demonetization of currency; regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions, which result in significant cash balances in foreign countries, from time to time, or could significantly affect our ability to effectively manage our operations in certain of these markets and could result in the deconsolidation of such businesses, such as occurred with respect to our venezuelan businesses which were deconsolidated at the end of the third quarter of 2015; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems; increased costs of doing business due to compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and the trade sanctions reform and export enhancement act; and adverse consequences, such as the assessment of fines or penalties, for any failure to comply with these laws and regulations. if we are unable to expand our businesses in developing and emerging markets, effectively operate, or manage the risks associated with operating, in these markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect from our investments in these markets, our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of the countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed and sold have experienced and may, from time to time, continue to experience uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions, such as recessions or economic slowdowns. our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions in the united states and globally, including: adverse changes in interest rates, tax laws or tax rates; volatile commodity markets, including speculative influences; highly-inflationary economies, devaluation, fluctuation or demonetization; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace due to legislation or economic conditions; the effects of government initiatives, including demonetization, austerity or stimulus measures to manage economic conditions and any changes to or cessation of such initiatives; the effects of any default by or deterioration in the creditworthiness of the countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold or of countries that may then impact countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold; reduced demand for our products resulting from volatility in general global economic conditions or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other lower-cost products, or to less profitable sales channels; or a decrease in the fair value of pension or post-retirement assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension or post-retirement plans. in addition, we cannot predict how current or future economic conditions will affect our customers, consumers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties and any negative impact on any of the foregoing may also have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including u.s. and non-u.s. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks and other financial institutions may be 17 table of contents exposed to a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity events, default or similar risks as a result of unfavorable economic conditions, changing regulatory requirements or other factors beyond our control. a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a major financial institution, or changes in the regulatory environment, may limit the ability or willingness of financial institutions to enter into financial transactions with us, including to provide banking or related cash management services, or to extend credit on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all; may leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or exposed to certain currencies or price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials, including through our use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures; or may result in a decline in the market value of our investments in debt securities, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. similar risks exist with respect to our customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors and joint venture partners and could result in their inability to obtain credit to purchase our products or to finance the manufacture and distribution of our products resulting in canceled orders and/or product delays, which could also have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against, or effectively respond to, cyberattacks or other cyber incidents or if our information systems, or those of our customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, are otherwise disrupted. we depend on information systems and technology, some of which are provided by third parties, including public websites and cloud-based services, for many activities important to our business, including: to interface with our customers and consumers; to engage in marketing activities; to enable and improve the effectiveness of our operations; to order and manage materials from suppliers; to manage inventory; to manage and operate our facilities; to conduct research and development; to maintain accurate financial records; to achieve operational efficiencies; to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements; to collect and store sensitive data and confidential information; to communicate electronically among our global operations and with our employees and the employees of our customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners and other third parties; and to communicate with our investors. cyberattacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature, are becoming more sophisticated and are being carried out by groups and individuals (including criminal hackers, hacktivists, state-sponsored actors, criminal and terrorist organizations, individuals or groups participating in organized crime and insiders) with a wide range of expertise and motives (including monetization of corporate, payment or other internal or personal data, theft of computing resources, financial fraud, operational disruption, theft of trade secrets and intellectual property for competitive advantage and leverage for political, social, economic and environmental reasons). such cyberattacks and cyber incidents can take many forms including cyber extortion, denial of service, social engineering, such as impersonation attempts to fraudulently induce employees or others to disclose information or unwittingly provide access to systems or data, introduction of viruses or malware, such as ransomware through phishing emails, website defacement or theft of passwords and other credentials, unauthorized use of computing resources for digital currency mining and business email compromises. as with other global companies, we are regularly subject to cyberattacks, including many of the types of attacks described above. although we may incur significant costs in protecting against or remediating cyberattacks or other cyber incidents, no cyberattack or other cyber incident has, to our knowledge, had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and maintain our information technology infrastructure, including monitoring networks and systems, upgrading our security policies and 18 table of contents the skills and training of our employees, and requiring our third-party service providers, customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties to do the same, if we or they fail to timely identify or appropriately respond to cyberattacks or other cyber incidents, or if our or their information systems are damaged, compromised, destroyed or shut down (whether as a result of natural disasters, fires, power outages, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events, network outages, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, technology development defects, user errors, lapses in our controls or the intentional or negligent actions of employees, or from deliberate cyberattacks such as malicious or disruptive software, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering, hackers or otherwise), our business could be disrupted and we could, among other things, be subject to: transaction errors; processing inefficiencies; the loss of, or failure to attract, new customers and consumers; lost revenues resulting from the disruption or shutdown of computer systems or other information technology systems at our offices, plants, warehouses, distribution centers or other facilities, or the loss of a competitive advantage due to the unauthorized use, acquisition or disclosure of, or access to, confidential information; the incurrence of costs to restore data and to safeguard against future extortion attempts; the loss of, or damage to, intellectual property or trade secrets, including the loss or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive data or other assets; alteration, corruption or loss of accounting, financial or other data on which we rely for financial reporting and other purposes, which could cause errors or delays in our financial reporting; damage to our reputation or brands; damage to employee, customer and consumer relations; litigation; regulatory enforcement actions or fines; unauthorized disclosure of confidential personal information of our employees, customers or consumers; the loss of information and/or supply chain disruption resulting from the failure of security patches to be developed and installed on a timely basis; violation of data privacy, security or other laws and regulations; and remediation costs. further, our information systems and those of our third-party providers, and the information stored therein could be compromised, including through cyberattacks or other external or internal methods, resulting in unauthorized parties accessing or extracting sensitive data or confidential information. failure to comply with data privacy laws could result in litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations. we continue to devote significant resources to network security, backup and disaster recovery, enhancing our internal controls, and other security measures, including training, to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security or guarantee that we will be successful in preventing or responding to every such breach or disruption. in addition, due to the constantly evolving nature of these security threats, the form and impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. similar risks exist with respect to the cloud-based service providers and other third-party vendors that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors. the need to coordinate with various third-party vendors may complicate our efforts to resolve any issues that may arise. as a result, we are subject to the risk that the activities associated with our third-party vendors may adversely affect our business even if the attack or breach does not directly impact our systems or information. moreover, our increased use of mobile and cloud technologies could heighten these and other operational risks, as certain aspects of the security of such technologies may be complex, unpredictable or beyond our control. while we currently maintain insurance coverage that, subject to its terms and conditions, is intended to address costs associated with certain aspects of cyber incidents, network failures and data privacy-related concerns, this insurance coverage may not, depending on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding an incident, cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise from an incident, or the damage to our reputation or brands that may result from an incident. 19 table of contents our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials, energy, water and other supplies. we and our business partners use various raw materials, energy, water and other supplies in our business. the principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit, oats, oranges and other fruits, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. we also use water in the manufacturing of our products. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including pet and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel, electricity and natural gas are also important commodities for our businesses due to their use in our and our business partners' facilities and the vehicles delivering our products. some of these raw materials and supplies are sourced from countries experiencing civil unrest, political instability or unfavorable economic conditions, and some are available from a limited number of suppliers or a sole supplier or are in short supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers or that our contingency plans, including development of ingredients, materials or supplies to replace ingredients, materials or supplies sourced from such suppliers, will be effective in preventing disruptions that may arise from shortages or discontinuation of any ingredient that is sourced from such suppliers. in addition, increasing focus on climate change, deforestation, water, animal welfare and human rights concerns and other risks associated with the global food system may lead to increased activism focusing on consumer goods companies, governmental intervention and consumer response, and could adversely affect our or our suppliers' reputation and business and our ability to procure the materials we need to operate our business. the raw materials and energy, including fuel, that we use for the manufacturing, production and distribution of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by many factors, including changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions (including any potential effects of climate change), fire, natural disasters (such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flooding), disease or pests (including the impact of greening disease on the citrus industry), agricultural uncertainty, health epidemics or pandemics, governmental incentives and controls (including import/export restrictions, such as new or increased tariffs, sanctions, quotas or trade barriers), limited or sole sources of supply, political uncertainties, acts of terrorism, governmental instability or currency exchange rates. for example, in 2018, the united states imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum as well as on goods imported from china and certain other countries, which has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by china and other countries. additional tariffs imposed by the united states on a broader range of imports, or further retaliatory trade measures taken by china or other countries in response, could result in an increase in supply chain costs that we may not be able to offset or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. shortage of some of these raw materials and other supplies, sustained interruption in their supply or an increase in their costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures. if commodity price changes result in unexpected or significant increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may be unwilling or unable to increase our product prices or unable to effectively hedge against commodity price increases to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue, margins and operating results. in addition, certain of the derivatives used to hedge price risk do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. 20 table of contents water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. the lack of available water of acceptable quality and increasing pressure to conserve water in areas of scarcity and stress may lead to: supply chain disruption; adverse effects on our operations; higher compliance costs; capital expenditures (including additional investments in the development of technologies to enhance water efficiency and reduce water consumption); higher production costs; the cessation of operations at, or relocation of, our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; or damage to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. business disruptions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability, and that of our suppliers and other third parties, including our bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners and customers, to make, manufacture, transport, distribute and sell products in our portfolio is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their operations due to any of the following factors could impair the ability to make, manufacture, transport, distribute or sell products in our portfolio: adverse weather conditions (including any potential effects of climate change) or natural disasters, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flooding; government action; economic or political uncertainties or instability in countries in which such products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, which may also affect our ability to protect the security of our assets and employees; fire; terrorism; outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; food safety warnings or recalls, whether related to products in our portfolio or otherwise; health epidemics or pandemics; supply and commodity shortages; unplanned delays or unexpected problems associated with repairs or enhancements of facilities in which such products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold; loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites; cyber incidents, including the disruption or shutdown of computer systems or other information technology systems at our offices, plants, warehouses, distribution centers or other facilities or those of our suppliers and other third parties who make, manufacture, transport, distribute and sell products in our portfolio; industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; telecommunications failures; power or water shortages; strikes, labor disputes or lack of availability of qualified personnel, such as truck drivers; or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and other third parties. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore operations. product contamination or tampering or issues or concerns with respect to product quality, safety and integrity could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations (whether or not valid) of product quality issues, mislabeling, misbranding, spoilage, allergens, adulteration or contamination with respect to products in our portfolio may reduce demand for such products, and cause production and delivery disruptions or increase costs, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the products in our portfolio are mislabeled or become unfit for consumption or cause injury, illness or death, or if appropriate resources are not devoted to product quality and safety (particularly as we expand our portfolio into new categories) or to comply with changing food safety requirements, we could decide to, or be required to, recall products in our portfolio and/or we may be subject to liability or government action, which could result in payment of damages or fines, cause certain products in our portfolio to be unavailable for a period of time, result in destruction of product inventory, or result in adverse publicity (whether or not valid), which could reduce consumer demand and brand equity. moreover, even if allegations of product contamination or tampering or suggestions that our products were not fit for consumption are meritless, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against us or products in our portfolio or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. our business could 21 table of contents also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in product quality, safety and integrity generally, even if such loss of confidence is unrelated to products in our portfolio. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, if we do not have adequate insurance, if we do not have enforceable indemnification from suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or if indemnification is not available, the liability relating to such product claims or disruption as a result of recall efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are a leading global beverage, food and snack company with brands that are respected household names throughout the world. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. our reputation or brand image could be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental practices for all of our operations and activities, including with respect to human rights, child labor laws and workplace conditions and safety, or failure to require our suppliers or other third parties to do so; the failure to achieve our goals of reducing added sugars, sodium and saturated fat in certain of our products and of growing our portfolio of product choices; the failure to achieve our other sustainability goals, including with respect to plastic packaging, or to be perceived as appropriately addressing matters of social responsibility; the failure to protect our intellectual property, including in the event our brands are used without our authorization; health concerns (whether or not valid) about our products or particular ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, our products, including concerns regarding whether certain of our products contribute to obesity; the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes, labeling requirements or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale, display or advertising of our products; any failure to comply, or perception of a failure to comply, with our policies and goals, including those regarding advertising to children and reducing calorie consumption from sugar-sweetened beverages; our research and development efforts; the recall (voluntary or otherwise) of any products in our portfolio; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, plastics or other packaging, water, energy use and waste management; any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment, including the recyclability or recoverability of our packaging, or perception of a failure to act responsibly with respect to water use and the environment; any failure to achieve our goals with respect to human rights throughout our value chain; the practices of our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties (including others in our industry) with respect to any of the foregoing, actual or perceived; consumer perception of our industry; consumer perception of our advertising campaigns, sponsorship arrangements or marketing programs; consumer perception of our use of social media; consumer perception of statements made by us, our employees and executives, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties (including others in our industry); or our responses or the responses of others in our industry to any of the foregoing. in addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, without limitation, anti-corruption laws, competition laws and tax laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. in the event that we or our employees engage in or are believed to have engaged in improper activities, we may be subject to regulatory proceedings, including enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences, which may cause us to suffer damage to our reputation in the united states or abroad. failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal control or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. in addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and demand for water continues to rise. our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use. 22 table of contents further, the popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. as a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us, our products, policies, practices, advertising campaigns and marketing programs or sponsorship arrangements; our use of social media or of posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; consumer perception of any of the foregoing, or failure by us to respond effectively to any of the foregoing, may also generate adverse publicity (whether or not valid) that could damage our reputation. damage to our reputation or brand image or loss of consumer confidence in our products or employees for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or effectively manage divestitures or refranchisings, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, refranchisings and other strategic transactions. potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things: our ability to realize the full extent of the expected returns, benefits, cost savings or synergies as a result of a transaction, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with a transaction; and diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations. with respect to acquisitions, including our recently completed acquisition of sodastream, the following factors also pose potential risks: our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the acquired company's manufacturing, distribution, sales, accounting, financial reporting and administrative support activities and information technology systems with our company; our ability to successfully operate in new categories or territories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees (both of the acquired company and our company); conforming standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, environmental compliance, health and safety compliance and compliance with other laws and regulations), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between us and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures and avoiding increased operating expenses; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; retaining existing distributors; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition; and other unanticipated problems or liabilities, such as contingent liabilities and litigation. with respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, resources or values as we do. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. business decisions or other actions or omissions of our joint venture partners may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us or otherwise damage our reputation and brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the united states increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the united states, including fluctuations in exchange rates and compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and laws and regulations outside the united states. 23 table of contents with respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we may not be able to complete or effectively manage such transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all and may fail to achieve the anticipated benefits or cost savings from the divestiture or refranchising. further, as divestitures and refranchisings may reduce our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain may adversely impact our sales or business performance. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed, integrated into our existing operations or managed effectively, or if a divestiture or refranchising is not successfully completed or managed effectively or does not result in the benefits or cost savings we expect, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. a change in our estimates and underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses could result in an impairment charge, which could materially affect our results of operations. we conduct impairment tests on our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets annually, during our third quarter, or more frequently if circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. any changes in our estimates or underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our reporting units or in determining the fair value of any such reporting unit, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets, could adversely affect our results of operations. factors that could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: significant negative economic or industry trends or competitive operating conditions; significant macroeconomic conditions that may result in a future increase in the weighted-average cost of capital used to estimate fair value; and significant changes in the nature and timing of decisions regarding assets or markets that do not perform consistent with our expectations, including factors we use to estimate future levels of sales, operating profit or cash flows. future impairment charges could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods recognized. increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or disagreements with tax authorities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. increases in income tax rates or other changes in income tax laws in any particular jurisdiction could reduce our after-tax income from such jurisdiction and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations outside the united states generate a significant portion of our income. in addition, the united states and many of the other countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, including countries in which we have significant operations, have recently made or are actively considering changes to existing tax laws. for example, in december 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act (tcj act) was signed into law in the united states. while our accounting for the recorded impact of the tcj act is deemed to be complete, these amounts are based on prevailing regulations and currently available information, and any additional guidance issued by the internal revenue service (irs) could impact our recorded amounts in future periods. for further information regarding the impact and potential impact of the tcj act, see our liquidity and capital resources and our critical accounting policies in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. additional changes in the u.s. tax regime or in how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings, including changes in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) has recommended changes to numerous long-standing international tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project. these changes, to the extent adopted, 24 table of contents may increase tax uncertainty, result in higher compliance costs and adversely affect our provision for income taxes, results of operations and/or cash flow. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the irs and other taxing authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes both within and outside the united states. in connection with the oecd's beps project, companies are required to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world, which may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in various countries. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the adoption of new or reformed tax legislation or regulation, may make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation could differ from our historical provisions and accruals, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to recruit, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our continued growth requires us to recruit, hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. we compete to recruit and hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. our employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies and our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to retain, develop and motivate highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. any unplanned turnover or unsuccessful implementation of our succession plans to backfill current leadership positions, including the chief executive officer, or to hire and retain a highly skilled and diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage or result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. the loss of, or a significant reduction in sales to, any key customer could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, hard discounters, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including wal-mart, to compete effectively. any inability to resolve a significant dispute with any of our key customers, a change in the business condition (financial or otherwise) of any of our key customers, even if unrelated to us, a significant reduction in sales to any key customer, or the loss of any of our key customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. disruption in the retail landscape, including rapid growth in hard discounters and the e-commerce channel, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our industry has been affected by changes to the retail landscape, including the rapid growth in sales through e-commerce websites, mobile commerce applications and subscription services as well as the integration of physical and digital operations among retailers. we continue to make significant investments in attracting talent to and building our global e-commerce capabilities. although we are engaged in e-commerce with respect to many of our products, if we are unable to maintain and develop successful relationships with existing and new e-commerce retailers or otherwise adapt to the growing e-commerce landscape, while simultaneously maintaining relationships with our key customers operating in traditional retail channels, we may be disadvantaged in certain channels and with certain customers and consumers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, the growth in e-commerce and hard discounters may result in consumer price deflation, which may affect our relationships with key retail 25 table of contents customers. further, the ability of consumers to compare prices on a real-time basis using digital technology puts additional pressure on us to maintain competitive prices. if these e-commerce and hard discounter retailers were to take significant market share away from traditional retailers and/or we fail to adapt to the rapidly changing retail and e-commerce landscapes, our ability to maintain and grow our profitability, share of sales or volume and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. further, the retail landscape continues to be impacted by the increased consolidation of retail ownership and purchasing power, particularly in north america, europe and latin america, resulting in large retailers with increased purchasing power, which may impact our ability to compete in these areas. such retailers may demand improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks, other distribution channels such as e-commerce, or private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. in addition, the growth of hard discounters that are focused on limiting the number of items they sell and selling predominantly private label brands may reduce our ability to sell our products through such retailers. failure to appropriately respond to any of the foregoing, including failure to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers, could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space and product availability at our retailers, adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow our share of sales or volume, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings. rating agencies routinely evaluate us, and their ratings of our long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our cash generating capability, levels of indebtedness, policies with respect to shareholder distributions and our financial strength generally, as well as factors beyond our control, such as the then-current state of the economy and our industry generally. any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, whether as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our control, could increase our future borrowing costs, impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all, and result in a reduction in our liquidity. we expect to maintain tier 1 commercial paper access, which we believe will facilitate appropriate financial flexibility and ready access to global credit markets at favorable interest rates. however, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade. an increase in our borrowing costs, limitations on our ability to access the global capital and credit markets or a reduction in our liquidity could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. if we are not able to successfully implement shared services or utilize information technology systems and networks effectively, our ability to conduct our business may be negatively impacted. we have entered into agreements with third-party service providers to utilize information technology support services and administrative functions in certain areas of our business, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions. we may enter into new or additional agreements for shared services in other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies as we continue to migrate to shared business service organizational models across our business operations. in addition, we utilize cloud-based services and systems and networks managed by third-party vendors to process, transmit and store information and to conduct certain of our business activities and transactions with employees, customers, consumers and other third parties. if any of these third-party service 26 table of contents providers or vendors do not perform effectively, or if we fail to adequately monitor their performance (including compliance with service level agreements or regulatory or legal requirements), we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings, we may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers, our reputation could be harmed or we could be subject to litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breaches or otherwise, incorrect or adverse effects on financial reporting, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation, which could have a negative impact on employee morale. in addition, the management of multiple third-party service providers increases operational complexity and decreases our control. we continue on our multi-year business transformation initiative to migrate certain of our systems, including our financial processing systems, to enterprise-wide systems solutions. these systems implementations are part of our ongoing global business transformation initiative, and we plan to continue implementing such systems throughout other parts of our businesses. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently, and remain in step with the changing needs of our business, which could result in the loss of customers or consumers and revenue. in addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers or consumers and revenue. in connection with these implementations and resulting business process changes, we continue to enhance the design and documentation of business processes and controls, including our internal control over financial reporting processes, to maintain effective controls over our financial reporting. to date, this transition has not materially affected, and we do not expect it to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. fluctuations in exchange rates impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the united states, where the functional currency is other than the u.s. dollar, are translated into u.s. dollars. our operations outside of the united states, particularly in mexico, russia, canada, the united kingdom and brazil , generate a significant portion of our net revenue. in addition, we purchase many of the ingredients, raw materials and commodities used in our business in numerous markets and in numerous currencies. fluctuations in exchange rates, including as a result of currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. climate change, water scarcity or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change or water scarcity may negatively affect our business and operations or damage our reputation. there is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, oranges and other fruits and potatoes. natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flooding, may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain and unfavorably impact the demand for, or our consumers' ability to purchase, our products. the predicted effects of climate change may also exacerbate challenges regarding the availability and quality of water. as demand for water access continues to increase 27 table of contents around the world, we may be subject to decreased availability of water, deteriorated quality of water or less favorable pricing for water, which could adversely impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. concern over climate change may result in new or increased regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. in the event that such regulation is more stringent than current regulatory obligations or the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor and improve our energy efficiency and water conservation, we may experience disruptions in, or significant increases in our costs of, operation and delivery and we may be required to make additional investments in facilities and equipment or relocate our facilities. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. as a result, the effects of climate change or water scarcity could negatively affect our business and operations. in addition, any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment or perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to act responsibly with respect to water use and the environment or to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning climate change or water scarcity could result in adverse publicity and could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. there is also increased focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, customers and consumers on these and other environmental sustainability matters, including deforestation, land use, climate impact, water use and recyclability or recoverability of packaging, including plastic. our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to our impact on the environment. a portion of our workforce is represented by unions. failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages, could cause our business to suffer. many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and other employees may seek to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. strikes or work stoppages or other business interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms or if we are unable to otherwise manage changes in, or that affect, our workforce, which could impair manufacturing and distribution of our products or result in a loss of sales, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. the terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new collective bargaining agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency or to adapt to changing business needs or strategy. if we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the value of our products or brands, or our competitive position, could be reduced, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets that are important to our business and relate to a variety of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our 28 table of contents intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and trade secrets, including our ingredient formulas, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands, or our competitive position, could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, if, in the course of developing new products or improving the quality of existing products, we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, such finding could have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations and may limit our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products. potential liabilities and costs from litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries and investigations, including but not limited to matters related to our advertising, marketing or commercial practices, product labels, claims and ingredients including sugar, sodium and saturated fat, our intellectual property rights, alleged infringement or misappropriation by us of intellectual property rights of others, environmental, privacy, employment, tax and insurance matters and matters relating to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. we evaluate such matters to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses and establish reserves as appropriate. these matters are inherently uncertain and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in these matters, or that our assessment of the materiality of these matters and the likely outcome or potential losses and established reserves will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such matters. in the event that management's assessment of actual or potential claims and proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation, claims, proceedings, inquiries or investigations that are material arise in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. responding to litigation, claims, proceedings, inquiries, and investigations, even those that are ultimately non-meritorious, may also require us to incur significant expense and devote significant resources, and may generate adverse publicity that may damage our reputation or brand image, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many factors may adversely affect the price of our publicly traded securities. many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and publicly traded debt. such factors, some of which are beyond our control, may include, but are not limited to: unfavorable economic conditions; changes in financial or tax reporting and changes in accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results; investor perceptions of our business, strategies and performance or those of our competitors; actions by shareholders or others seeking to influence our business strategies; speculation by the media or investment community regarding our business, strategies and performance or those of our competitors; developments relating to pending litigation, claims, inquiries or investigations; changes in laws and regulations applicable to our products or business operations; trading activity in our securities or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our securities; changes in our credit ratings; the impact of our share repurchase programs or dividend policy; and the outcome of referenda and elections. in addition, corporate actions, such as those we may or may not take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure and our strategy, including as a result of business, legal, regulatory and tax considerations, may not have the impact we intend and may adversely affect the price of our securities. the above factors, as well as the other risks included in this item 1a. risk factors, could adversely affect the price of our securities. 29 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 132 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks.risk factors 11 risk factors and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business our business risks. investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the discussion of risks in this report is by no means all-inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance. part i item 1. business. when used in this report, the terms we, us, our, pepsico and the company mean pepsico, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively. certain terms used in this annual report on form 10-k are defined in the glossary included in item 7. of this report. company overview we were incorporated in delaware in 1919 and reincorporated in north carolina in 1986. we are a leading global food and beverage company with a complementary portfolio of brands, including frito-lay, gatorade, pepsi-cola, quaker and tropicana. through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third parties, we make, market, distribute and sell a wide variety of convenient beverages, foods and snacks, serving customers and consumers in more than 200 countries and territories. our operations changes to organizational structure during the fourth quarter of 2019, we realigned our europe sub-saharan africa (essa) and asia, middle east and north africa (amena) reportable segments to be consistent with a recent strategic realignment of our organizational structure and how our chief executive officer assesses the performance of, and allocates resources to, our reportable segments. as a result, our beverage, food and snack businesses in north africa, the middle east and south asia that were part of our former amena segment and our businesses in sub-saharan africa that were part of our former essa segment are now reported together as our africa, middle east and south asia (amesa) segment. the remaining beverage, food and snack businesses that were part of our former amena segment are now reported together as our asia pacific, australia and new zealand and china region (apac) segment and our beverage, food and snack businesses in europe are now reported as our europe segment. these changes did not impact our frito-lay north america (flna), quaker foods north america (qfna), 2 table of contents pepsico beverages north america (pbna), formerly named north america beverages, or latin america (latam) reportable segments or our consolidated financial results . our historical segment reporting presented in this report has been retrospectively revised to reflect the new organizational structure. we are organized into seven reportable segments (also referred to as divisions), as follows: 1) flna, which includes our branded food and snack businesses in the united states and canada; 2) qfna, which includes our cereal, rice, pasta and other branded food businesses in the united states and canada; 3) pbna, which includes our beverage businesses in the united states and canada; 4) latam, which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in latin america; 5) europe, which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in europe; 6) amesa, which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in africa, the middle east and south asia; and 7) apac, which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in asia pacific, australia and new zealand, and china region. frito-lay north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, flna makes, markets, distributes and sells branded snack foods. these foods include branded dips, cheetos cheese-flavored snacks, doritos tortilla chips, fritos corn chips, lay's potato chips, ruffles potato chips and tostitos tortilla chips. flna's branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. in addition, flna's joint venture with strauss group makes, markets, distributes and sells sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. quaker foods north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, qfna makes, markets, distributes and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. qfna's products include aunt jemima mixes and syrups, cap'n crunch cereal, life cereal, pasta roni, quaker chewy granola bars, quaker grits, quaker oatmeal, quaker rice cakes, quaker simply granola and rice-a-roni side dishes. these branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. pepsico beverages north america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, pbna makes, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including aquafina, diet mountain dew, diet pepsi, gatorade, mountain dew, pepsi, propel, sierra mist and tropicana. pbna also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea and coffee products through joint ventures with unilever (under the lipton brand name) and starbucks, respectively. further, pbna manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from keurig dr pepper inc., including crush, dr pepper and schweppes, and certain juice brands licensed from dole food company, inc. (dole) and ocean spray cranberries, inc. (ocean spray). pbna operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities and sells branded finished goods directly to independent distributors and retailers. pbna also sells concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized and independent bottlers, who in turn sell our branded finished goods to independent distributors and retailers in certain markets. latin america either independently or in conjunction with third parties, latam makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of snack food brands including cheetos, doritos, emperador, lay's, marias gamesa, rosquinhas mabel, ruffles, sabritas, saladitas and tostitos, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks. latam 3 table of contents also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7up, gatorade, h2oh!, manzanita sol, mirinda, pepsi, pepsi black, san carlos and toddy. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. latam also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). europe either independently or in conjunction with third parties, europe makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including cheetos, chipita, doritos, lay's, ruffles and walkers, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses, as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. europe also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7up, diet pepsi, mirinda, pepsi, pepsi max and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. in certain markets, however, europe operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. europe also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). in addition, europe makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading dairy products including agusha, chudo and domik v derevne. further, as part of its beverage business, europe manufactures and distributes sparkling water makers through sodastream international ltd. (sodastream). see note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for further information about our acquisition of sodastream. africa, middle east and south asia either independently or in conjunction with third parties, amesa makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including cheetos, chipsy, doritos, kurkure and lay's, as well as many quaker branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses, as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. amesa also makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7up, aquafina, mirinda, mountain dew and pepsi. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. in certain markets, however, amesa operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. amesa also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). in 2019, we entered into an agreement to acquire pioneer food group ltd. (pioneer foods), a food and beverage company in south africa with exports to countries across the globe . the transaction is subject to certain regulatory approvals and other customary conditions and is expected to close in the first half of 2020. see note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for further information about our acquisition of pioneer foods. asia pacific, australia and new zealand and china region either independently or in conjunction with third parties, apac makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including cheetos, doritos, lay's and smith's, as well as many quaker branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses, as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. apac also makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7up, aquafina, mirinda, mountain dew and pepsi. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. apac also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). further, apac licenses the tropicana brand for use in china on co-branded juice products in connection with a strategic alliance with tingyi (cayman islands) holding corp. (tingyi). 4 table of contents our distribution network our products are primarily brought to market through direct-store-delivery (dsd), customer warehouse and distributor networks and are also sold directly to consumers through e-commerce platforms and retailers. the distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. direct-store-delivery we, our independent bottlers and our distributors operate dsd systems that deliver beverages, foods and snacks directly to retail stores where the products are merchandised by our employees or our independent bottlers. dsd enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. dsd is especially well-suited to products that are restocked often and respond to in-store promotion and merchandising. customer warehouse some of our products are delivered from our manufacturing plants and warehouses to customer warehouses. these less costly systems generally work best for products that are less fragile and perishable, and have lower turnover. distributor networks we distribute many of our products through third-party distributors. third-party distributors are particularly effective when greater distribution reach can be achieved by including a wide range of products on the delivery vehicles. for example, our foodservice and vending business distributes beverages, foods and snacks to restaurants, businesses, schools and stadiums through third-party foodservice and vending distributors and operators. e-commerce our products are also available and sold directly to consumers on a growing number of company-owned and third-party e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications. ingredients and other supplies the principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit, oranges and other fruits, oats, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. we also use water in the manufacturing of our products. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (pet) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum, glass, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. in addition, we continue to integrate recyclability into our product development process and support the increased use of recycled content, including recycled pet, in our packaging. fuel, electricity and natural gas are also important commodities for our businesses due to their use in our and our business partners' facilities and the vehicles delivering our products. we employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages that would prevent us from meeting our requirements. many of these ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures. in addition, risk to our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. when prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. in addition, we continue to make investments to improve the sustainability and resources of our agricultural supply chain, including the development of our initiative to advance sustainable farming practices by our suppliers and expanding it further globally. see note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on how we manage our exposure to commodity prices. 5 table of contents our brands and intellectual property rights we own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including 1893, agusha, amp energy, aquafina, aquafina flavorsplash, arto lifewater, aunt jemima, bare, bolt24, bubly, cap'n crunch, cheetos, chester's, chipita, chipsy, chokis, chudo, cracker jack, crunchy, diet mountain dew, diet mug, diet pepsi, diet 7up (outside the united states), domik v derevne, doritos, duyvis, elma chips, emperador, evolve, frito-lay, fritos, fruktovy sad, g2, gamesa, gatorade, grandma's, h2oh!, health warrior, imunele, izze, j-7 tonus, kas, kevita, kurkure, lay's, life, lifewtr, lubimy, manzanita sol, marias gamesa, matutano, mirinda, miss vickie's, mother's, mountain dew, mountain dew amp game fuel, mountain dew code red, mountain dew ice, mountain dew kickstart, mountain dew zero sugar, mug, munchies, muscle milk, naked, near east, off the eaten path, o.n.e., paso de los toros, pasta roni, pepsi, pepsi black, pepsi max, pepsi zero sugar, propel, quaker, quaker chewy, rice-a-roni, rold gold, rosquinhas mabel, ruffles, sabritas, sakata, saladitas, san carlos, sandora, santitas, 7up (outside the united states), 7up free (outside the united states), sierra mist, sierra mist zero sugar, simba, smartfood, smith's, snack a jacks, sobe, sodastream, sonric's, stacy's, sting, stubborn soda, sunchips, toddy, toddynho, tostitos, trop 50, tropicana, tropicana pure premium, tropicana twister, v water, vesely molochnik, walkers and ya. we also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products in certain markets, including dole and ocean spray. we also distribute rockstar energy drinks and various keurig dr pepper inc. brands, including dr pepper in certain markets, crush and schweppes. joint ventures in which we have an ownership interest either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as lipton, sabra and starbucks. trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. we have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. in addition, we license the use of our trademarks on merchandise that is sold at retail, which enhances brand awareness. we either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to certain of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. some of these patents are licensed to others. seasonality our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. our beverage, food and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. however, taken as a whole, seasonality has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial results. our customers our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, hard discounters, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. we normally grant our independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. these arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality. we also grant distribution rights to our independent bottlers for certain beverage products bearing our trademarks for specified geographic areas. we rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our products to the consumer. for our independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include volume-based rebates, product placement fees, promotions and displays. for our independent bottlers, these incentives are referred to as bottler funding and are negotiated annually with each bottler to support a variety of trade and consumer programs, such as consumer incentives, advertising support, new product support, and vending and cooler equipment placement. consumer incentives include pricing discounts and promotions, and other 6 table of contents promotional offers. advertising support is directed at advertising programs and supporting independent bottler media. new product support includes targeted consumer and retailer incentives and direct marketplace support, such as point-of-purchase materials, product placement fees, media and advertising. vending and cooler equipment placement programs support the acquisition and placement of vending machines and cooler equipment. the nature and type of programs vary annually. changes to the retail landscape, including increased consolidation of retail ownership, the rapid growth of sales through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, including through subscription services and other direct-to-consumer businesses, the integration of physical and digital operations among retailers, as well as the growth in hard discounters, and the current economic environment continue to increase the importance of major customers. in 2019 , sales to walmart inc. (walmart) and its affiliates, including sam's club (sam's), represented approximately 13% of our consolidated net revenue, with sales reported across all of our divisions. our top five retail customers represented approximately 34% of our 2019 net revenue in north america, with walmart and its affiliates (including sam's) representing approximately 19% . these percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers, which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. see off-balance-sheet arrangements in our financial results our liquidity and capital resources in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for more information on our independent bottlers. our competition our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and economy brands and other competitors, including smaller companies developing and selling micro brands directly to consumers through e-commerce platforms or through retailers focused on locally-sourced products. in many countries in which our products are sold, including the united states, the coca-cola company is our primary beverage competitor. other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, campbell soup company, conagra brands, inc., kellogg company, keurig dr pepper inc., the kraft heinz company, link snacks, inc., mondel z international, inc., monster beverage corporation, nestl s.a. and red bull gmbh. many of our food and snack products hold significant leadership positions in the food and snack industry in the united states and worldwide. in 2019 , we and the coca-cola company represented approximately 22% and 20%, respectively, of the u.s. liquid refreshment beverage category by estimated retail sales in measured channels, according to information resources, inc. however, the coca-cola company has significant carbonated soft drink (csd) share advantage in many markets outside the united states. our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition and loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity (including digital), packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness and the continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of distributing and purchasing products. success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, effective introduction of new products and reformulations of existing products, increased efficiency in production techniques, effective incorporation of technology and digital tools across all areas of our business, the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging and pricing, new vending and dispensing equipment and brand and trademark development and protection. we believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allows us to compete effectively. 7 table of contents research and development we engage in a variety of research and development activities and invest in innovation globally with the goal of meeting changing consumer demands and preferences and accelerating sustainable growth. these activities principally involve: development of new ingredients, flavors and products; reformulation and improvement in the quality and appeal of existing products; improvement and modernization of manufacturing processes, including cost reduction; improvements in product quality, safety and integrity; development of, and improvements in, marketing and merchandising equipment, dispensing equipment, packaging technology (including investments in recycling-focused technologies), package design (including development of sustainable, bio-based packaging) and portion sizes; efforts focused on identifying opportunities to transform, grow and broaden our product portfolio, including by developing products with improved nutrition profiles that reduce added sugars, sodium or saturated fat, including through the use of natural flavors, sweetener alternatives and flavor modifiers and innovation in existing sweeteners and flavoring, further expanding our beyond the bottle portfolio, including further growing our sodastream business, and offering more products with positive nutrition including whole grains, fruits and vegetables, dairy, protein and hydration; investments in building our capabilities to support our global e-commerce business; investments in technology and digitalization, including data analytics to enhance our consumer insights; and efforts focused on reducing our impact on the environment, including improvements in energy efficiency, water use in our operations and our agricultural practices. our research centers are located around the world, including brazil, china, india, ireland, mexico, russia, the united kingdom and the united states, and leverage nutrition science, food science, engineering and consumer insights to meet our strategy to continue to innovate in nutritious and convenient beverages, foods and snacks. in 2019 , we continued to make investments to further digitalize our business including: continuing to strengthen our omnichannel capabilities, particularly in e-commerce; and leveraging technology and data analytics to capture and analyze consumer level data to increasingly structure personalized communications with consumers and satisfy demand at the store level. in addition, we continued to refine our beverage, food and snack portfolio to meet changing consumer demands by reducing added sugars in many of our beverages and sodium and saturated fat in many of our foods and snacks, and by developing a broader portfolio of product choices, including: continuing to expand our beverage options that contain no high-fructose corn syrup and that are made with natural flavors; expanding our beyond the bottle offerings by offering bubly in fountain dispensing; developing 100% recycled pet packaging for lifewtr and aluminum can packaging for aquafina; expanding our state of the art food and beverage healthy vending initiative to increase the availability of nutritious and convenient beverages, foods and snacks; further expanding our portfolio, through a combination of brand extensions, product reformulations, new product innovations and acquisitions to offer products with more of the nutritious ingredients and hydration our consumers are looking for, such as quaker (grains), tropicana (juices, lemonades, fruit and vegetable drinks), gatorade (sports nutrition for athletes), naked juice (cold-pressed juices and smoothies), kevita (probiotics, tonics and fermented teas), bare (baked apple chips and other baked fruits and vegetables), health warrior (nutrition bars), evolve (plant-based protein products) and muscle milk (protein shakes); further expanding our whole grain products globally; and further expanding our portfolio in growing categories, such as dairy, hummus and other refrigerated dips, and baked grain snacks. in addition, we continued to make investments to reduce our impact on the environment, including: efforts to conserve raw materials and energy, such as by working to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions across our global businesses, by helping to protect and conserve global water supply especially in high-water-risk locations (including replenishing watersheds that source our operations in high-water-risk locations and promoting the efficient use of water in our agricultural supply chain), and by incorporating improvements in the sustainability and resources of our agricultural supply chain into our operations; efforts to reduce waste generated by our operations and disposed of in landfills; efforts to increase energy efficiency, including the increased use of renewable energy and resources; efforts to support sustainable agriculture by expanding best practices with our growers and suppliers, including 8 table of contents through the use of data and technology to optimize yields and efficiency and promote responsible use of pesticides; and efforts to create a circular future for packaging, including the increased use of recycled content and alternative packaging, support for increased packaging recovery and recycling rates globally, optimization of packaging technology and design to minimize the amount of plastic in our packaging and to make our packaging increasingly recoverable or recyclable with lower environmental impact, and our continued investments in developing compostable and biodegradable packaging. regulatory matters the conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, content, quality, safety, transportation, packaging, disposal, recycling and use of our products, as well as our employment and occupational health and safety practices and protection of personal information, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in the more than 200 other countries and territories in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. it is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. the u.s. laws and regulations that we are subject to include: the federal food, drug and cosmetic act and various state laws governing food safety; the food safety modernization act; the occupational safety and health act; various federal, state and local environmental protection laws, as discussed below; the federal motor carrier safety act; the federal trade commission act; the lanham act; various federal and state laws and regulations governing competition and trade practices; various federal and state laws and regulations governing our employment practices, including those related to equal employment opportunity, such as the equal employment opportunity act and the national labor relations act and those related to overtime compensation, such as the fair labor standards act; data privacy and personal data protection laws and regulations, including the california privacy act of 2018; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations, including laws regarding the import or export of our products or ingredients used in our products and tariffs; laws regulating the sale of certain of our products in schools; laws regulating our supply chain, including the 2010 california transparency in supply chains act and laws relating to the payment of taxes. we are also required to comply with the foreign corrupt practices act and the trade sanctions reform and export enhancement act. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including state consumer protection laws such as proposition 65 in california, which requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the state of california as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects, unless the amount of such substance in the product is below a safe harbor level. we are subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside the united states, including but not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, international trade and tariffs, supply chain, including the u.k. modern slavery act, occupational health and safety, competition, anti-corruption and data privacy, including the european union general data protection regulation. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws, including the u.k. bribery act. we rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel and other experts, to guide our businesses in complying with the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. in addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed, or are considering imposing, new or increased taxes on the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products. these taxes vary in scope and form: some apply to all beverages, including non-caloric beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). similarly, some measures apply a single tax rate per ounce/liter on beverages containing over a certain level of added sugar (or other sweetener) while others apply a graduated tax rate depending upon the amount of added sugar (or other sweetener) in the beverage and some apply a flat tax 9 table of contents rate on beverages containing a particular substance or ingredient, regardless of the level of such substance or ingredient. in addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed, or are considering imposing, product labeling or warning requirements or other limitations on the marketing or sale of certain of our products as a result of ingredients or substances contained in such products or the audience to whom products are marketed. these types of provisions have required that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns consumers to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products. it is possible that similar or more restrictive requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. in addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed or are considering imposing regulations designed to increase recycling rates or encourage waste reduction. these regulations vary in scope and form from deposit return systems designed to incentivize the return of beverage containers, to extended producer responsibility policies and even bans on the use of some plastic beverage bottles and other single-use plastics. it is possible that similar or more restrictive requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. we are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the united states and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater discharge and air emissions. in the united states, our facilities must comply with the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the resource conservation and recovery act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, storage, release and disposal of wastes generated onsite and sent to third-party owned and operated offsite licensed facilities and our facilities outside the united states must comply with similar laws and regulations. in addition, continuing concern over climate change may result in new or increased legal and regulatory requirements (in or outside of the united states) to reduce or mitigate the potential effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. our policy is to abide by all applicable environmental laws and regulations, and we have internal programs in place with respect to our global environmental compliance. we have made, and plan to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. while these expenditures have not had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date, changes in environmental compliance requirements, and any expenditures necessary to comply with such requirements, could adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. while these environmental remediation and indemnification obligations cannot be predicted with certainty, such obligations have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. in addition to the discussion in this section, see also item 1a. risk factors. employees as of december 28, 2019 , we and our consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 267,000 people worldwide, including approximately 116,000 people within the united states. in certain countries, our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. we or our subsidiaries are party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. we expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. we believe that relations with our employees are generally good. available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . 10 table of contents our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act), are also available free of charge on our internet site at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. investors should note that we currently announce material information to our investors and others using filings with the sec, press releases, public conference calls, webcasts or our corporate website ( www.pepsico.com ), including news and announcements regarding our financial performance, key personnel, our brands and our business strategy. information that we post on our corporate website could be deemed material to investors. we encourage investors, the media, our customers, consumers, business partners and others interested in us to review the information we post on these channels. we may from time to time update the list of channels we will use to communicate information that could be deemed material and will post information about any such change on www.pepsico.com . the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, including the management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations section and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. these risks, some of which have occurred and any of which may occur in the future, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our publicly traded securities. the risks described below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may occur or become material in the future and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our publicly traded securities. therefore, historical operating results, financial and business performance, events and trends are often not a reliable indicator of future operating results, financial and business performance, events or trends. future demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate, market or distribute our products effectively, and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are a global food and beverage company operating in highly competitive categories and markets. to generate revenues and profits, we rely on continued demand for our products and therefore must understand our customers and consumers and sell products that appeal to them in the sales channel in which they prefer to shop or browse for such products. in general, changes in consumption in our product categories or consumer demographics can result in reduced demand for our products. demand for our products depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to shifts in consumer trends and preferences, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are concerned with: health and wellness (including products that have less added sugars, sodium and saturated fat); convenience (including responding to changes in in-home and on-the-go consumption patterns and methods of distribution of our products to customers and consumers, including through e-commerce and hard discounters); or the location of origin or source of ingredients and products (including the environmental impact related to production and packaging of our products). consumer preferences continuously evolve, due to a variety of factors, including: changes in consumer demographics, including the aging of the general population and the emergence of the millennial and younger generations who have differing spending, consumption and purchasing habits; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the nutrition profile of products, including the presence of added sugar, sodium and saturated fat in certain of our products; growing demand for organic, locally or sustainably sourced ingredients, or consumer concerns or perceptions (whether or not valid) regarding the health effects of ingredients or 11 table of contents substances present in certain of our products, such as 4-mei, acrylamide, artificial flavors and colors, artificial sweeteners, aspartame, caffeine, furfuryl alcohol, high-fructose corn syrup, partially hydrolyzed oils, saturated fat, sodium, sugar, trans fats or other product ingredients, substances or attributes, including genetically engineered ingredients; taxes or other restrictions, including labeling requirements, imposed on our products; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding packaging materials, including single-use and other plastic packaging, and their environmental impact; changes in package or portion size; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns; changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; the continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of purchasing products; negative publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory actions, litigation against us or other companies in our industry or negative or inaccurate posts or comments in the media, including social media, about us, our employees, our products or advertising campaigns and marketing programs; perception of our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or our respective social media posts, business practices or other information disseminated by or regarding them or us; product boycotts; or a downturn in economic conditions. these factors have in the past and could in the future reduce consumers' willingness to purchase certain of our products and any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes can lead to reduced demand for our products or erode our competitive and financial position, resulting in adverse effects on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. demand for our products is also dependent in part on product quality, product and marketing innovation and production and distribution, including our ability to: maintain a robust pipeline of new products; improve the quality of existing products; extend our portfolio of products in growing markets and categories (through acquisitions and innovation, such as increasing non-carbonated beverage offerings and other alternatives to, or reformulations of, carbonated beverage offerings); respond to cultural differences and regional consumer preferences (whether through developing or acquiring new products that are responsive to such preferences); monitor and adjust our use of ingredients and packaging materials (including to respond to applicable regulations); develop sweetener alternatives and innovation; increase the recyclability or recoverability of our packaging; create more relevant and personalized experiences for consumers whether in a digital environment or through digital devices in an otherwise physical environment; improve the production and distribution of our products; enhance our data analytics capabilities to develop new commercial insights; respond to competitive product and pricing pressures and changes in distribution channels, including in the e-commerce channel; maintain our labeling certifications (e.g., non-gmo) from independent organizations and regulatory authorities for certain of our products; and implement effective advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including successfully adapting to a rapidly changing media environment through the use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. although we devote significant resources to the items mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop, launch, maintain or distribute successful new products or variants of existing products in a timely manner (including correctly anticipating or effectively reacting to changes in consumer preferences) or to develop and effectively execute advertising and marketing campaigns that appeal to customers and consumers, including through the use of digital technology. our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products or effectively market or distribute our products can reduce demand for our products, result in inventory write-offs and erode our competitive and financial position and can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in laws and regulations relating to the use or disposal of plastics or other product packaging can increase our costs, reduce demand for our products or otherwise have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. 12 table of contents certain of our food and beverage products are sold in plastic or other packaging designed to be recoverable for recycling but not all packaging is recovered, whether due to lack of infrastructure or otherwise. in addition, certain of our packaging is not currently recyclable, compostable or biodegradable. there is a growing concern with the accumulation of plastic, including microplastics, and other packaging waste in the environment, particularly in the world's oceans and waterways. as a result, packaging waste that displays one or more of our brands has in the past and could continue to result in negative publicity (whether or not valid) or reduce consumer demand and overall consumption of our products, resulting in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in response to these concerns, the united states and many other jurisdictions have imposed or are considering imposing regulations or policies designed to increase the sustainability of packaging, encourage waste reduction and increase recycling rates or facilitate the waste management process or restrict the sale of products in certain packaging. these regulations vary in scope and form from taxes or fees designed to incentivize behavior to restrictions or bans on certain products and materials. for example, 24 countries in the european union (eu) have established extended producer responsibility (epr) policies, which make manufacturers such as us responsible for the costs of recycling beverage and food packaging after consumers have used them. epr policies are also being contemplated in other jurisdictions around the world, including certain states in the united states. in addition, 10 states in the united states as well as a growing number of european countries have a bottle deposit return system in effect, which requires a deposit charged to consumers to incentivize the return of the beverage container. further, certain jurisdictions have imposed or are considering imposing other types of regulations or policies, including packaging taxes, requirements for bottle caps to be tethered to the plastic bottle, minimum recycled content mandates, which would require packaging to include a certain percentage of post-consumer recycled material in a new package, and even bans on the use of some plastic beverage bottles and other single-use plastics. these laws and regulations, whatever their scope or form, have in the past and could continue to increase the cost of our products, reduce consumer demand and overall consumption of our products or result in negative publicity (whether or not valid), resulting in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. while we continue to devote significant resources to increase the recyclability and sustainability of our packaging, the increased focus on reducing plastic waste has required and could continue to require us to increase capital expenditures, including requiring additional investments to minimize the amount of plastic across our packaging, including to increase the use of alternative packaging materials (e.g., glass and aluminum) in certain markets; increase the amount of recycled content in our packaging; and develop sustainable, bio-based packaging as a replacement for fossil fuel-based plastic packaging, including flexible film alternatives for our snacks packaging. our failure to minimize our plastics use, increase the amount of recycled content in our packaging or develop sustainable packaging or consumers' failure to accept such sustainable packaging has in the past and could continue to reduce consumer demand and overall consumption of our products and erode our competitive and financial position. further, our reputation can be damaged for failure to achieve our sustainability goals with respect to our plastics use, including our goal to reduce 35% of virgin plastic content across our beverage portfolio by 2025, or if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to packaging or disposal of our products. changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business operations can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the conduct of our business is subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as government entities and agencies outside the united states, including laws and regulations relating to the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, content, quality, safety, transportation, packaging, disposal, recycling and use of our products, as well as our employment and occupational health and safety practices and protection of personal information. in addition, in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special 13 table of contents importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. many of these laws and regulations have differing or conflicting legal standards across the various markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold and, in certain markets, such as developing and emerging markets, may be less developed or certain. for example, products containing genetically engineered ingredients are subject to differing regulations and restrictions in the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, as is the packaging, disposal and recyclability of our products. for example, the eu has mandated tethered caps for all beverage bottles by 2024 and minimum recycled content of 25% for pet bottles by 2025 and 30% for all plastic bottles by 2030 and laws mandating various minimum recycled content thresholds for pet bottles are also in place in turkey, bolivia, ecuador and peru, while the use of recycled content in food and beverage packaging is prohibited in a range of countries, for example, in asia. in addition, these laws and regulations and related interpretations have changed and could continue to change, sometimes dramatically and unexpectedly, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. such changes have included and could continue to include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to product labeling, advertising and marketing practices, including restrictions on the audience to whom products are marketed; laws and treaties related to international trade, including laws regarding the import or export of our products or ingredients used in our products and tariffs; laws and programs aimed at reducing, restricting or eliminating ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, certain of our products; laws related to pesticide used by farmers in our supply chain or residual amounts of pesticide that may be found in certain of our ingredients or products; laws related to traceability requirements for our supply chain; laws and programs aimed at discouraging the consumption or altering the package or portion size of certain of our products, including laws imposing restrictions on the use of government funds or programs to purchase certain of our products; increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving product claims and concerns (whether or not valid) regarding the effects on health of ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, certain of our products, including without limitation those found in energy drinks; state consumer protection laws; laws regulating the protection of personal information; cyber-security regulations; regulatory initiatives, including the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other measures impacting the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products; accounting rules and interpretations; employment laws; privacy laws; laws regulating the price we may charge for our products; laws regulating water rights and access to and use of water or utilities; environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water treatment and discharge of wastewater and air emissions and laws relating to the disposal, recovery or recycling of our products and their packaging. changes in regulatory requirements or changing interpretations thereof, and differing or competing regulations and standards across the markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, have in the past and could continue to result in higher compliance costs, capital expenditures and higher production costs, resulting in adverse effects on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. the imposition of new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, including taxes, labeling, product, production, recovery or recycling requirements, or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale or advertisement of certain of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products, commodities used in the production of our products or use, disposal, recovery or recyclability of our products and their packaging, may further alter the way in which we do business and, therefore, may continue to increase our costs or liabilities or reduce demand for our products, resulting in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if one jurisdiction imposes or proposes to impose new requirements or restrictions, other jurisdictions often follow. for example, if one jurisdiction imposes a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages or foods, or imposes a specific labeling or warning requirement, other jurisdictions may impose similar or other measures that impact the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products. the foregoing has in the past and could continue to result 14 table of contents in decreased demand for certain of our products, adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of ingredients or substances in our products (whether or not valid). in addition, studies (whether or not scientifically valid) have been and continue to be underway by third parties purporting to assess the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in certain of our products or packaging materials, such as 4-mei, acrylamide, caffeine, pesticides (e.g., glyphosate), furfuryl alcohol, added sugars, sodium, saturated fat and plastic. third parties have also published documents or studies claiming (whether or not valid) that taxes can address consumer consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and foods high in sugar, sodium or saturated fat. the results of these studies and documents have contributed to or resulted in and could continue to contribute to or result in an increase in consumer concerns (whether or not valid) about the health implications of consumption of certain of our products, an increase in the number of jurisdictions that impose taxes on our products, or an increase in new labeling, product or production requirements or other restrictions on the manufacturing, sale or display of our products, resulting in reduced demand for our products, our company being subject to lawsuits or new regulations that can adversely affect sales of our products, and other adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, suppliers, or other third parties with whom we do business can take actions, intentional or not, that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations or can fail to maintain required documentation sufficient to evidence our compliance with applicable laws or regulations. failure to comply with such laws or regulations can subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, injunctions, product recalls, penalties, disgorgement of profits or activity restrictions, any of which can adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, certain regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or assets or other sanctions, resulting in an adverse effect on the sales of products in our portfolio or damage to our reputation. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. we cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our estimates or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes aimed at our products can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, new or increased taxes on the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products. these taxes vary in scope and form: some apply to all beverages, including non-caloric beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). similarly, some measures apply a single tax rate per ounce/liter on beverages containing over a certain level of added sugar (or other sweetener) while others apply a graduated tax rate depending upon the amount of added sugar (or other sweetener) in the beverage and some apply a flat tax rate on beverages containing a particular substance or ingredient, regardless of the particular substance or ingredient levels. for example, peru revised an existing threshold tax to become a graduated tax, effective june 2019, in which the per-ounce tax rate is tied to the amount of added sugar present in the beverage: the higher the amount of added sugar, the higher the per- 15 table of contents ounce tax rate, while saudi arabia expanded an existing flat tax rate of 50% on the retail price of carbonated soft drinks to include all sweetened beverages, including non-caloric beverages, effective december 2019. these tax measures, whatever their scope or form, have in the past and could continue to increase the cost of certain of our products, reduce consumer demand and overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether based on scientific fact or not) or leave consumers with the perception (whether or not valid) that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs, resulting in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of our products could reduce demand for such products and can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, product labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of certain of our products as a result of ingredients or substances contained in such products. these types of provisions have required that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns consumers to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products. for example, in california in the united states, proposition 65 requires a specific warning on or relating to any product that contains a substance listed by the state of california as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects or other reproductive harm, unless the level of such substance in the product is below a safe harbor level established by the state of california. in addition, a number of jurisdictions, both in and outside the united states, have imposed or are considering imposing labeling requirements, including color-coded labeling of certain food and beverage products where colors such as red, yellow and green are used to indicate various levels of a particular ingredient, such as sugar, sodium or saturated fat. the imposition or proposed imposition of additional product labeling or warning requirements has in the past and could continue to reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether based on scientific fact or not) or leave consumers with the perception (whether or not valid) that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs, resulting in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business, financial condition or results of operations can suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and economy brands and other competitors, including smaller companies developing and selling micro brands directly to consumers through e-commerce platforms or through retailers focused on locally-sourced products. in many countries in which our products are sold, including the united states, the coca-cola company is our primary beverage competitor. other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, campbell soup company, conagra brands, inc., kellogg company, keurig dr pepper inc., the kraft heinz company, link snacks, inc., mondel z international, inc., monster beverage corporation, nestl s.a. and red bull gmbh. our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition and loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness and the continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of distributing and purchasing products. if we are unable to effectively promote our existing products or introduce new products, if our advertising or marketing campaigns are not effective, if we fail to invest in and incorporate technology and digital tools across all areas of our business (including the use of data analytics to enhance our ability to effectively market to consumers), if our competitors spend more aggressively than we do or if we are otherwise unable to effectively respond to pricing pressure or 16 table of contents compete effectively (including in distributing our products effectively and cost efficiently through all existing and emerging channels of trade, including through e-commerce and hard discounters), we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or category share or we may need to increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity or reinvestment initiatives or operating model can have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our future success and earnings growth depend, in part, on our ability to continue to reduce costs and improve efficiencies, including implementing shared business service organizational models while reinvesting back into the business. our productivity initiatives help support our growth initiatives and contribute to our results of operations. we continue to implement productivity initiatives that we believe will position our business for long-term sustainable growth by allowing us to achieve a lower cost structure, improve decision-making and operate more efficiently in the highly competitive beverage, food and snack categories and markets. some of these measures have yielded and could continue to yield unintended consequences, such as business disruptions, distraction of management and employees, reduced employee morale and productivity, and unexpected additional employee attrition, including the inability to attract or retain key personnel. it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to lead and execute our plans, including to effectively manage personnel adjustments and transitions resulting from these initiatives and increased competition for employees with the skills necessary to implement our plans. if we are unable to successfully implement our productivity initiatives as planned, fail to implement these initiatives as timely as we anticipate, do not achieve expected savings as a result of these initiatives or incur higher than expected or unanticipated costs in implementing these initiatives, fail to identify and implement additional productivity opportunities in the future, or fail to successfully manage business disruptions or unexpected employee consequences on our workforce, morale or productivity, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, resulting in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. further, in order to continue to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts and operating model, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. from time to time, we have in the past and could continue to implement these investment initiatives to enable us to compete more effectively, including investments to increase manufacturing capacity, improve innovation, transform our manufacturing, commercial and corporate operations through digital technologies and artificial intelligence, and enhance brand management through our use of data analytics to develop new commercial and consumer insights. if we fail to realize all or any of the anticipated benefits of these reinvestment initiatives, our business, financial condition or results of operations can be adversely affected. our business, financial condition or results of operations can be adversely affected as a result of political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have been and could continue to be difficult to predict, resulting in adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the results of elections, referendums or other political conditions (including government shutdowns) in these markets have in the past and could continue to impact how existing laws, regulations and government programs or policies are implemented or create uncertainty as to how such laws, regulations and government programs or policies may change, including with respect to tariffs, sanctions, climate change regulation, taxes, benefit programs, the movement of goods, services and people between countries, relationships between countries, customer or consumer perception of a particular country or its government and other matters, and has resulted in and could continue to result in exchange rate fluctuation, volatility in global stock markets and global economic uncertainty or adversely affect demand for our products. for example, the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit) is likely to lead to differing laws and regulations in the united kingdom and european union and further global economic, trade and regulatory uncertainty. any changes in, or the imposition of, 17 table of contents new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations due to elections, referendums or other political conditions can have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business, financial condition or results of operations can be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets. our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in developing and emerging markets, including mexico, russia, the middle east, brazil, china and india. however, there can be no assurance that our existing products, variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, distribute or sell will be accepted or be successful in any particular developing or emerging market, due to local or global competition, product price, cultural differences, consumer preferences as to distribution or otherwise. the following factors can reduce demand for our products or otherwise impede the growth of our business in developing and emerging markets: unstable economic, political or social conditions; acts of war, terrorist acts, and civil unrest; increased competition; volatility in the economic growth of certain of these markets and the related impact on developed countries who export to these markets; volatile oil prices and the impact on the local economy in certain of these markets; our inability to acquire businesses, form strategic business alliances or to make necessary infrastructure investments; our inability to complete divestitures or refranchisings; imposition of new or increased labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions; our inability to hire or retain a highly skilled workforce; imposition of new or increased tariffs and other impositions on imported goods or sanctions against, or other regulations restricting contact with, certain countries in these markets, or imposition of new or increased sanctions against u.s. multinational corporations or tariffs on the products of such corporations operating in these markets; actions, such as removing our products from shelves, taken by retailers in response to u.s. trade sanctions, tariffs or other governmental action or policy; foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets or the assets of our suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; imposition of taxes on our products or the ingredients or substances used in our products; government-mandated closure, or threatened closure, of our operations or the operations of our suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners, customers or other third parties; restrictions on the import or export of our products or ingredients or substances used in our products; regulations relating to the repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the united states; highly inflationary economies and potential highly inflationary economies, devaluation or fluctuation, such as the devaluation of the russian ruble, turkish lira, brazilian real, argentine peso and the mexican peso, or demonetization of currency; regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions, which result in significant cash balances in foreign countries, from time to time, or can significantly affect our ability to effectively manage our operations in certain of these markets and can result in the deconsolidation of such businesses, such as occurred with respect to our venezuelan businesses which were deconsolidated at the end of the third quarter of 2015; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems; increased costs of doing business due to compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and the trade sanctions reform and export enhancement act; and adverse consequences, such as the assessment of fines or penalties, for any failure to comply with these laws and regulations. if we are unable to expand our businesses in developing and emerging markets, effectively operate, or manage the risks associated with operating, in these markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect from our investments in these markets, our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations can be adversely affected. uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 18 table of contents many of the countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed and sold have experienced and could continue to experience uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions, such as recessions or economic slowdowns. our business or financial results have in the past and could continue to be adversely impacted by uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions in the united states and globally, including: adverse changes in interest rates, tax laws or tax rates; volatile commodity markets, including speculative influences; highly inflationary economies, devaluation, fluctuation or demonetization; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace due to legislation or economic conditions; the effects of government initiatives, including demonetization, austerity or stimulus measures to manage economic conditions and any changes to or cessation of such initiatives; the effects of any default by or deterioration in the creditworthiness of the countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold or of countries that may then impact countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold; reduced demand for our products resulting from volatility in general global economic conditions or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other lower-cost products, or to less profitable sales channels; or a decrease in the fair value of pension or post-retirement assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension or post-retirement plans. in addition, we cannot predict how current or future economic conditions will affect our customers, consumers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties and any negative impact on any of the foregoing may also have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including u.s. and non-u.s. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks and other financial institutions, may be exposed to a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity events, default or similar risks as a result of unfavorable economic conditions, changing regulatory requirements or other factors beyond our control. a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a major financial institution, or changes in the regulatory environment, can limit the ability or willingness of financial institutions to enter into financial transactions with us, including to provide banking or related cash management services, or to extend credit on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all; can leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or exposed to certain currencies or price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials, including through our use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures; or can result in a decline in the market value of our investments in debt securities, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. similar risks exist with respect to our customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors and joint venture partners and can result in their inability to obtain credit to purchase our products or to finance the manufacture and distribution of our products resulting in canceled orders and/or product delays, which can also have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. our business and reputation can suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against, or effectively respond to, cyberattacks or other cyber incidents or if our information systems, or those of our customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, are otherwise disrupted. we depend on information systems and technology, some of which are provided by third parties, including public websites and cloud-based services, for many activities important to our business, including: to interface with our customers and consumers; to engage in marketing activities; to enable and improve the effectiveness of our operations; to order and manage materials from suppliers; to manage inventory; to manage and operate our facilities; to conduct research and development, including through the use of data analytics; to maintain accurate financial records; to achieve operational efficiencies; to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements; to collect and store sensitive data and confidential information; to communicate electronically among our global operations and with our employees and the employees of our customers, 19 table of contents suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners and other third parties; and to communicate with our investors. cyberattacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature, are becoming more sophisticated and are being carried out by groups and individuals (including criminal hackers, hacktivists, state-sponsored actors, criminal and terrorist organizations, individuals or groups participating in organized crime and insiders) with a wide range of expertise and motives (including monetization of corporate, payment or other internal or personal data, theft of computing resources, notoriety, financial fraud, operational disruption, theft of trade secrets and intellectual property for competitive advantage and leverage for political, social, economic and environmental reasons). such cyberattacks and cyber incidents can take many forms including cyber extortion, denial of service, social engineering, such as impersonation and identity takeover attempts to fraudulently induce employees or others to disclose information or unwittingly provide access to systems or data, introduction of viruses or malware, such as ransomware, exploiting vulnerabilities in hardware, software or other infrastructure, hacking, website defacement or theft of passwords and other credentials, unauthorized use of computing resources for digital currency mining and business email compromises. as with other global companies, we are regularly subject to cyberattacks, including many of the types of attacks described above. although we incur significant costs in protecting against or remediating cyberattacks or other cyber incidents, no cyberattack or other cyber incident has, to our knowledge, had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and maintain our information technology infrastructure, including monitoring networks and systems, upgrading our security policies and the skills and training of our employees, and requiring our third-party service providers, customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties to do the same, if we or they fail to timely identify or appropriately respond to cyberattacks or other cyber incidents, or if our or their information systems are damaged, compromised, destroyed or shut down (whether as a result of natural disasters, fires, power outages, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events, network outages, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, technology development defects, user errors, lapses in our controls or the malicious or negligent actions of employees (including misuse of information they are entitled to access), or from deliberate cyberattacks such as malicious or disruptive software, phishing, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering, hackers or otherwise), our business can be disrupted and, among other things, be subject to: transaction errors or financial loss; processing inefficiencies; the loss of, or failure to attract, new customers and consumers; lost revenues or other costs resulting from the disruption or shutdown of computer systems or other information technology systems at our offices, plants, warehouses, distribution centers or other facilities, or the loss of a competitive advantage due to the unauthorized use, acquisition or disclosure of, or access to, confidential information; the incurrence of costs to restore data and to safeguard against future extortion attempts; the loss of, or damage to, intellectual property or trade secrets, including the loss or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive data or other assets; alteration, corruption or loss of accounting, financial or other data on which we rely for financial reporting and other purposes, which can cause errors or delays in our financial reporting; damage to our reputation or brands; damage to employee, customer and consumer relations; litigation; regulatory enforcement actions or fines; unauthorized disclosure of confidential personal information of our employees, customers or consumers; the loss of information and/or business operations disruption resulting from the failure of security patches to be developed and installed on a timely basis; violation of data privacy, security or other laws and regulations; and remediation costs. further, our information systems and those of our third-party providers, and the information stored therein can be compromised, including through cyberattacks or other external or internal methods, resulting in unauthorized parties accessing or extracting sensitive data or confidential information. in the ordinary course of business, we receive, process, transmit and store information relating to identifiable individuals, primarily employees and former employees. privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country or, within the united states, from state to state, and can create inconsistent or 20 table of contents conflicting requirements. our efforts to comply with privacy and data protection laws, including with respect to data from residents of the european union who are covered by the general data protection regulation, which went into effect in may 2018, and residents of the state of california covered by the california consumer privacy act of 2018, which went into effect on january 1, 2020, impose significant costs or challenges that are likely to increase over time. failure to comply with existing or future data privacy laws and regulations can result in litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations. we continue to devote significant resources to network security, backup and disaster recovery, enhancing our internal controls, and other security measures, including training, to protect our systems and data. in addition, our risk management program also includes periodic review and discussion by our board of directors of analyses of emerging cybersecurity threats and our plans and strategies to address them. however, these security measures and processes cannot provide absolute security or guarantee that we will be successful in preventing or responding to every such breach or disruption. in addition, due to the constantly evolving nature of these security threats, the form and impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. similar risks exist with respect to the cloud-based service providers and other third-party vendors that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors. the need to coordinate with various third-party vendors may complicate our efforts to resolve any issues that arise. as a result, we are subject to the risk that the activities associated with our third-party vendors may adversely affect our business even if the attack or breach does not directly impact our systems or information. moreover, our increased use of mobile and cloud technologies has heightened these and other operational risks, as certain aspects of the security of such technologies are complex, unpredictable or beyond our control. while we currently maintain insurance coverage that, subject to its terms and conditions, is intended to address costs associated with certain aspects of cyber incidents, network failures and data privacy-related concerns, this insurance coverage may not, depending on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding an incident, cover all losses or all types of claims that arise from an incident, or the damage to our reputation or brands that may result from an incident. our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials, energy and other supplies. we and our business partners use various raw materials, energy and other supplies in our business. the principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit, oats, oranges and other fruits, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including pet and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. in addition, we continue to integrate recyclability into our product development process and support the increased use of recycled content, including recycled pet, in our packaging. fuel, electricity and natural gas are also important commodities for our businesses due to their use in our and our business partners' facilities and the vehicles delivering our products. some of these raw materials and supplies are sourced from countries experiencing civil unrest, political instability or unfavorable economic conditions, and some are available from a limited number of suppliers or a sole supplier or are in short supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers or that our contingency plans, including development of ingredients, materials or supplies to replace ingredients, materials or supplies sourced from such suppliers, will be effective in preventing disruptions that may arise from shortages or discontinuation of any ingredient that is sourced from such suppliers. in addition, increasing focus on climate 21 table of contents change, deforestation, the use of plastics and energy, animal welfare and human rights concerns and other risks associated with the global food system is leading to increased activism focusing on consumer goods companies, governmental intervention and consumer response, and can adversely affect our or our suppliers' reputation and business and our ability to procure the materials we need to operate our business. the raw materials and energy, including fuel, that we use for the manufacturing, production and distribution of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by many factors, including changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions (including any potential effects of climate change), fire, natural disasters (such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake, wildfire or flooding), disease or pests (including the impact of greening disease on the citrus industry), agricultural uncertainty, health epidemics or pandemics or other contagious outbreaks, such as the recent coronavirus, governmental incentives and controls (including import/export restrictions, such as new or increased tariffs, sanctions, quotas or trade barriers), limited or sole sources of supply, political uncertainties, acts of terrorism, governmental instability or currency exchange rates. for example, concerns regarding trade relations between the united states and china escalated during fiscal 2019, with the united states imposing tariffs on the importation of certain chinese goods and retaliatory chinese tariffs on u.s. goods. higher duties on existing tariffs or additional tariffs imposed by the united states on a broader range of imports, or further retaliatory trade measures taken by china or other countries in response, could result in an increase in supply chain costs that we are not able to offset or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. shortage of some of these raw materials and other supplies, sustained interruption in their supply or an increase in their costs can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures. if commodity price changes result in unexpected or significant increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may be unwilling or unable to increase our product prices or unable to effectively hedge against commodity price increases to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue, margins and operating results. in addition, certain of the derivatives used to hedge price risk do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. water scarcity can have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we and our suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint venture partners and other third parties use water in the manufacturing of our products. water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. the lack of available water of acceptable quality, increasing focus by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, customers and consumers on water scarcity and increasing pressure to conserve and replenish water in areas of scarcity and stress may lead to: supply chain disruption; adverse effects on our operations or the operations of our suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributor, joint venture partners or other third parties; higher compliance costs; capital expenditures (including additional investments in the development of technologies to enhance water efficiency and reduce water consumption); higher production costs, including less favorable pricing for water; the cessation of operations at, or relocation of, our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; failure to achieve our sustainability goals relating to water use; perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to act responsibly with respect to water use or to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning water scarcity; or damage to our reputation, any of which can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. business disruptions can have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 22 table of contents our ability, and that of our suppliers and other third parties, including our bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners and customers, to make, manufacture, transport, distribute and sell products in our portfolio is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their operations has occurred in the past and could continue to occur due to any of the following factors which can impair the ability to make, manufacture, transport, distribute or sell products in our portfolio: adverse weather conditions (including any potential effects of climate change) or natural disasters, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake, wildfire or flooding; government action; economic or political uncertainties or instability in countries in which such products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, which may also affect our ability to protect the security of our assets and employees; fire; terrorism; outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; food safety warnings or recalls, whether related to products in our portfolio or otherwise; health epidemics or pandemics or other contagious outbreaks, such as the recent coronavirus; supply and commodity shortages; unplanned delays or unexpected problems associated with repairs or enhancements of facilities in which such products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold; loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites; cyber incidents, including the disruption or shutdown of computer systems or other information technology systems at our offices, plants, warehouses, distribution centers or other facilities or those of our suppliers and other third parties who make, manufacture, transport, distribute and sell products in our portfolio; industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; telecommunications failures; power, fuel or water shortages; strikes, labor disputes or lack of availability of qualified personnel, such as truck drivers; or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and other third parties. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, has in the past resulted and could continue to result in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore operations. product contamination or tampering or issues or concerns with respect to product quality, safety and integrity can adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations (whether or not valid) of product quality issues, mislabeling, misbranding, spoilage, allergens, adulteration or contamination with respect to products in our portfolio may reduce demand for such products, and cause production and delivery disruptions or increase costs, which can adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the products in our portfolio are mislabeled or become unfit for consumption or cause injury, illness or death, or if appropriate resources are not devoted to product quality and safety (particularly as we expand our portfolio into new categories) or to comply with changing food safety requirements, we can decide to, or be required to, recall products in our portfolio and/or we may be subject to liability or government action, which can result in payment of damages or fines, cause certain products in our portfolio to be unavailable for a period of time, result in destruction of product inventory, or result in adverse publicity (whether or not valid), which can reduce consumer demand and brand equity. moreover, even if allegations of product contamination or tampering or suggestions that our products were not fit for consumption are meritless, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against us or products in our portfolio or processes can adversely affect our reputation or brands. our business can also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in product quality, safety and integrity generally, even if such loss of confidence is unrelated to products in our portfolio. any of the foregoing can adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, if we do not have adequate insurance, if we do not have enforceable indemnification from suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or if indemnification is not available, the liability relating to such product claims or disruption as a result of recall efforts can materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. any damage to our reputation or brand image can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 23 table of contents we are a leading global beverage, food and snack company with brands that are respected household names throughout the world. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. our reputation or brand image has in the past and could continue to be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental practices for all of our operations and activities, including with respect to human rights, child labor laws and workplace conditions and safety, or failure to require our suppliers or other third parties to do so; the failure to achieve our goals of reducing added sugars, sodium and saturated fat in certain of our products and of growing our portfolio of product choices; the failure to achieve our other sustainability goals, including with respect to plastic packaging, or to be perceived as appropriately addressing matters of social responsibility; the failure to protect our intellectual property, including in the event our brands are used without our authorization; health concerns (whether or not valid) about our products or particular ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, our products, including concerns regarding whether certain of our products contribute to obesity; the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes, labeling requirements or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale, display or advertising of our products; any failure to comply, or perception of a failure to comply, with our policies and goals, including those regarding advertising to children and reducing calorie consumption from sugar-sweetened beverages; our research and development efforts; the recall (voluntary or otherwise) of any products in our portfolio; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, plastics or other packaging, water, energy use and waste management; any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment, including the recyclability or recoverability of our packaging, or perception of a failure to act responsibly with respect to water use and the environment; any failure to achieve our goals with respect to human rights throughout our value chain; the practices of our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties (including others in our industry) with respect to any of the foregoing, actual or perceived; consumer perception of our industry; consumer perception of our advertising campaigns, sponsorship arrangements or marketing programs; consumer perception of our use of social media; consumer perception of statements made by us, our employees and executives, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties (including others in our industry); or our responses or the responses of others in our industry to any of the foregoing. in addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, without limitation, anti-corruption laws, competition laws and tax laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. in the event that we or our employees or agents engage in or are believed to have engaged in improper activities, we have in the past and could continue to be subject to regulatory proceedings, including enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences, resulting in damage to our reputation in the united states or abroad. failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal control or to provide accurate and timely financial information can also hurt our reputation. further, the popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. as a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us, our products, policies, practices, advertising campaigns and marketing programs or sponsorship arrangements; our use of social media or of posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; consumer perception of any of the foregoing, or failure by us to respond effectively to any of the foregoing, has in the past and could continue to also generate adverse publicity (whether or not valid) that can damage our reputation. damage to our reputation or brand image or loss of consumer confidence in our products or employees for any of these or other reasons has in the past and could continue to result in decreased demand for our products, 24 table of contents resulting in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as requiring additional resources to rebuild our reputation. failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or effectively manage divestitures or refranchisings, can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, refranchisings and other strategic transactions. issues associated with these activities have in the past and could continue to include, among other things: our ability to realize the full extent of the expected returns, benefits, cost savings or synergies as a result of a transaction, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with a transaction; and diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations. with respect to acquisitions, the following factors also have in the past and could continue to pose additional risk risks: our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the acquired company's manufacturing, distribution, sales, accounting, financial reporting and administrative support activities and information technology systems with our company; our ability to successfully operate in new categories or territories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees (both of the acquired company and our company); conforming standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, environmental compliance, health and safety compliance and compliance with other laws and regulations), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between us and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures and avoiding increased operating expenses; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; retaining existing distributors; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition; and other unanticipated problems or liabilities, such as contingent liabilities and litigation. with respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, resources or values as we do. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. business decisions or other actions or omissions of our joint venture partners have in the past and could continue to adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us or otherwise damage our reputation and brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the united states increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the united states, including fluctuations in exchange rates and compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and laws and regulations outside the united states. with respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we have in the past and could continue to be unable to complete or effectively manage such transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all, resulting in failure to achieve the anticipated benefits or cost savings from the divestiture or refranchising. further, as divestitures and refranchisings reduce our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain can adversely impact our sales or business performance. acquisitions or joint ventures that are not successfully completed, integrated into our existing operations or managed effectively, or divestitures or refranchisings that are not successfully completed or managed 25 table of contents effectively or do not result in the benefits or cost savings we expect, have in the past and could continue to result in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a change in our estimates and underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses can result in an impairment charge that materially affects our results of operations. we conduct impairment tests on our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets annually, during our third quarter, or more frequently if circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable and have recorded impairments in the past. any changes in our estimates or underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our reporting units or in determining the fair value of any such reporting unit, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets, can adversely affect our results of operations. factors considered to determine if an impairment exist include, but are not limited to: significant negative economic or industry trends or competitive operating conditions; significant macroeconomic conditions that can result in a future increase in the weighted-average cost of capital used to estimate fair value; and significant changes in the nature and timing of decisions regarding assets or markets that do not perform consistent with our expectations, including factors we use to estimate future levels of sales, operating profit or cash flows. while no material impairment charges have been recorded in the periods presented in this form 10-k, we may in the future record impairment charges that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods recognized. see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or disagreements with tax authorities can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. increases in income tax rates or other changes in income tax laws in any particular jurisdiction can reduce our after-tax income from such jurisdiction and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations outside the united states generate a significant portion of our income. in addition, existing tax laws in the united states and many of the other countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, including countries in which we have significant operations, have been and could in the future be subject to significant change. for example, in december 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act (tcj act) was signed into law in the united states. while our accounting for the recorded impact of the tcj act is deemed to be complete, these amounts are based on prevailing regulations and currently available information, and additional guidance issued by the internal revenue service (irs) may continue to impact our recorded amounts in future periods. in addition, o n may 19, 2019, a public referendum held in switzerland passed the federal act on tax reform and ahv financing (traf), effective january 1, 2020. certain provisions of the traf were enacted in fiscal year 2019, resulting in adjustments to our deferred taxes. the future impact of the traf cannot currently be estimated and we continue to monitor and assess the impact of traf on our business and financial results. for further information regarding the impact and potential impact of the tcj act and the traf, see our liquidity and capital resources and our critical accounting policies in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. additional changes in the u.s. tax regime or in how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings, including changes in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) has recommended changes to numerous long-standing international tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project. these changes have been or are being adopted by many of the countries in which we do business. in connection with the oecd's beps project, the oecd has undertaken a new project focused on addressing the tax challenges of the digitalization of the economy. this project may impact all multinational businesses by reallocating where some profits are taxed and implementing a global model for minimum taxation. the increasingly complex 26 table of contents global tax environment has in the past and could continue to increase tax uncertainty, resulting in higher compliance costs and adverse effects on our provision for income taxes, results of operations and/or cash flow. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the irs and other taxing authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes both within and outside the united states. in connection with the oecd's beps project, companies are required to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world, which may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in various countries. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the adoption of new or reformed tax legislation or regulation, may make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation can differ from our historical provisions and accruals, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to recruit, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it can have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our continued growth requires us to recruit, hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. we compete to recruit and hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. our employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies and our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to retain, develop and motivate highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. any unplanned turnover or unsuccessful implementation of our succession plans to backfill current leadership positions, including the chief executive officer, or failure to hire and retain a highly skilled and diverse workforce, including with key capabilities such as e-commerce and digital marketing and data analytic skills, can deplete our institutional knowledge base, erode our competitive advantage or result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. any of the foregoing can adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. the loss of, or a significant reduction in sales to, any key customer can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, hard discounters, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including wal-mart, to compete effectively. any inability to resolve a significant dispute with any of our key customers, a change in the business condition (financial or otherwise) of any of our key customers, even if unrelated to us, a significant reduction in sales to any key customer, or the loss of any of our key customers can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. disruption in the retail landscape, including rapid growth in the e-commerce channel and hard discounters, can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our industry has been affected by changes to the retail landscape, including the rapid growth in sales through e-commerce websites, mobile commerce applications and subscription services as well as the integration of physical and digital operations among retailers. we continue to make significant investments in attracting talent to and building our global e-commerce and digital capabilities. although we are engaged in e-commerce with respect to many of our products, if we are unable to maintain and develop successful relationships with existing and new e-commerce retailers or otherwise adapt to the growing e-commerce landscape, while simultaneously maintaining relationships with our key customers operating in traditional retail channels, we may be disadvantaged in certain channels and with certain customers and consumers, which can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, the growth in e-commerce and hard discounters may result in consumer price deflation, which may affect our relationships with key retail 27 table of contents customers. further, the ability of consumers to compare prices on a real-time basis using digital technology puts additional pressure on us to maintain competitive prices. if these e-commerce and hard discounter retailers were to take significant additional market share away from traditional retailers and/or we fail to adapt to the rapidly changing retail and e-commerce landscapes, including finding ways to create more powerful digital tools and capabilities for our retail customers to enable them to grow their businesses, our ability to maintain and grow our profitability, share of sales or volume and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. further, the retail landscape continues to be impacted by the increased consolidation of retail ownership and purchasing power, particularly in north america, europe and latin america, resulting in large retailers or buying groups with increased purchasing power, which may impact our ability to compete in these areas. such retailers or buying groups demand improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks, other distribution channels such as e-commerce, or private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. in addition, such consolidation can continue to adversely impact our smaller customers' ability to compete effectively, resulting in an inability on their part to pay for our products or reduced or canceled orders of our products. further, the growth of hard discounters that are focused on limiting the number of items they sell and selling predominantly private label brands may continue to reduce our ability to sell our products through such retailers. failure to appropriately respond to any of the foregoing, including failure to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers, can reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space and product availability at our retailers, adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow our share of sales or volume, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets would be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings. rating agencies routinely evaluate us, and their ratings of our long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our cash generating capability, levels of indebtedness, policies with respect to shareholder distributions and our financial strength generally, as well as factors beyond our control, such as the then-current state of the economy and our industry generally. any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, whether as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our control, can increase our future borrowing costs, impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all, and result in a reduction in our liquidity. we expect to maintain tier 1 commercial paper access, which we believe will facilitate appropriate financial flexibility and ready access to global credit markets at favorable interest rates. however, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings can impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market can also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade. an increase in our borrowing costs, limitations on our ability to access the global capital and credit markets or a reduction in our liquidity can adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. if we are not able to successfully implement shared services or utilize information technology systems and networks effectively, our ability to conduct our business may be negatively impacted. we have entered into agreements with third-party service providers to utilize information technology support services and administrative functions in certain areas of our business, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions. we may enter into new or additional agreements for shared services in other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies as we continue to migrate to shared business service organizational models across our business 28 table of contents operations. in addition, we increasingly utilize cloud-based services and systems and networks managed by third-party vendors to process, transmit and store information and to conduct certain of our business activities and transactions with employees, customers, consumers and other third parties. failure by these third-party service providers or vendors to perform effectively, or our failure to adequately monitor their performance (including compliance with service level agreements or regulatory or legal requirements), has in the past and could continue to result in our inability to achieve the expected cost savings, additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers, damage to our reputation or our being subject to litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations. depending on the function involved, such errors can also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breaches or otherwise, incorrect or adverse effects on financial reporting, litigation or remediation costs, damage to our reputation or have a negative impact on employee morale. in addition, the management of multiple third-party service providers increases operational complexity and decreases our control. we continue on our multi-year business transformation initiative to migrate certain of our systems, including our financial processing systems, to enterprise-wide systems solutions. these systems implementations are part of our ongoing global business transformation initiative, and we plan to continue implementing such systems throughout other parts of our businesses. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently, and remain in step with the changing needs of our business, which can result in the loss of customers or consumers and revenue. in addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, can lead to business disruption and loss of customers or consumers and revenue. in connection with these implementations and resulting business process changes, we continue to enhance the design and documentation of business processes and controls, including our internal control over financial reporting processes, to maintain effective controls over our financial reporting. to date, this transition has not materially affected, and we do not expect it to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. fluctuations in exchange rates impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the united states, where the functional currency is other than the u.s. dollar, are translated into u.s. dollars. our operations outside of the united states, particularly in mexico, russia, canada, the united kingdom, china and brazil , generate a significant portion of our net revenue. in addition, we purchase many of the ingredients, raw materials and commodities used in our business in numerous markets and in numerous currencies. fluctuations in exchange rates, including as a result of currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions have had, and could continue to have, an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. climate change or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect our business and operations or damage our reputation. there is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, oranges and other fruits and potatoes. natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake, wildfire or flooding, may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain and unfavorably impact the demand for, or our consumers' ability to purchase, our products. 29 table of contents concern over climate change may result in new or increased regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulation is more stringent than current regulatory obligations or the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor and improve our energy efficiency, we may experience disruptions in, or significant increases in our costs of, operation and delivery and be required to make additional investments in facilities and equipment or relocate our facilities. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions can substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. as a result, the effects of climate change can negatively affect our business and operations i n addition, any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment or perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to act responsibly with respect to the environment or to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning climate change can lead to adverse publicity, resulting in an adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. there is also increased focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, customers and consumers on these and other environmental sustainability matters, including deforestation, land use, climate impact and recyclability or recoverability of packaging, including plastic. our reputation can be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to our impact on the environment. a portion of our workforce is represented by unions. failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages, can cause our business to suffer. many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and other employees may seek to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. strikes or work stoppages or other business interruptions can occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms or if we are unable to otherwise manage changes in, or that affect, our workforce, which can impair manufacturing and distribution of our products or lead to a loss of sales, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new collective bargaining agreements can also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency or to adapt to changing business needs or strategy. if we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the value of our products or brands, or our competitive position, can be reduced, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets that are important to our business and relate to a variety of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our intellectual property, although the laws of various jurisdictions have differing levels of protection of intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and trade secrets, including our ingredient formulas, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands, or our competitive position, can be reduced, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, if, in the course of developing new products or improving the quality of existing products, we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, 30 table of contents such finding can have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations and may limit our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products. potential liabilities and costs from litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations can have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries and investigations, including but not limited to matters related to our advertising, marketing or commercial practices, product labels, claims and ingredients including sugar, sodium and saturated fat, our intellectual property rights, alleged infringement or misappropriation by us of intellectual property rights of others, environmental, privacy, employment, tax and insurance matters and matters relating to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. we evaluate such matters to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses and establish reserves as appropriate. these matters are inherently uncertain and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in these matters, or that our assessment of the materiality of these matters and the likely outcome or potential losses and established reserves will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such matters. in the event that management's assessment of actual or potential claims and proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation, claims, proceedings, inquiries or investigations that are material arise in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. responding to litigation, claims, proceedings, inquiries, and investigations, even those that are ultimately non-meritorious, requires us to incur significant expense and devote significant resources, and may generate adverse publicity that damages our reputation or brand image, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many factors can adversely affect the price of our publicly traded securities. many factors can adversely affect the price of our common stock and publicly traded debt. such factors, some of which are beyond our control, have in the past and could continue to include, but are not limited to: unfavorable economic conditions; changes in financial or tax reporting and changes in accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results; investor perceptions of our business, strategies and performance or those of our competitors; actions by shareholders or others seeking to influence our business strategies; speculation by the media or investment community regarding our business, strategies and performance or those of our competitors; developments relating to pending litigation, claims, inquiries or investigations; changes in laws and regulations applicable to our products or business operations; trading activity in our securities or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our securities; changes in our credit ratings; the impact of our share repurchase programs or dividend policy; and the outcome of referenda and elections. in addition, corporate actions, such as those we have or have not taken in the past or may or may not take in the future as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure and our strategy, including as a result of business, legal, regulatory and tax considerations, have not and may not in the future have the impact we intend, resulting in adversely effects on the price of our securities. the above factors, as well as the other risks included in this item 1a. risk factors, can adversely affect the price of our securities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 129 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 83 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk included in item 7. management discussion and analysis - our market risks .quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 93 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk included in item 7. management discussion and analysis our business risks.risk factors 6 risk factors forward-looking and cautionary statements we discuss expectations regarding our future performance, such as our business outlook, in our annual and quarterly reports, press releases, and other written and oral statements. these forward-looking statements are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data and our operating plans. they are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could turn out to be significantly different from our expectations. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. the following discussion of risks is by no means all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our trends and future results. demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes. we are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. any significant changes in consumer preferences and our inability to anticipate and react to such changes could 6 table of contents result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. our success depends on our ability to respond to consumer trends, such as consumer health concerns about obesity, product attributes and ingredients. in addition, changes in product category consumption and consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population, changes in social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns or a downturn in economic conditions, which may reduce consumers willingness to purchase premium branded products. our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products, and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products, or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. in addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. if we fail to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, our reputation could be jeopardized. adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. if any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, misbranded or causes injury, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability. a widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities could also jeopardize our reputation. damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these reasons could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. if we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, our business could suffer. we depend on information technology as an enabler to operating efficiently and interfacing with customers, as well as maintaining financial accuracy and efficiency. if we do not allocate, and effectively manage, the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. we have embarked on a multiyear business process transformation (bpt) initiative that includes the delivery of an sap enterprise resource planning application, as well as the migration to common business processes across our north american operations. there can be no certainty that these programs will deliver the expected benefits. the failure to 7 table of contents deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. in addition, the failure to either deliver the application on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption. as with all large systems, our information systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemic, strikes or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. trade consolidation or the loss of any key customer could adversely affect our financial performance. there is a greater concentration of our customer base around the world generally due to the continued consolidation of retail trade. as retail ownership becomes more concentrated, retailers demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, as larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. failure to appropriately respond to these trends or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, retail consolidation has increased the importance of major customers and further consolidation is expected. sales to wal-mart stores, inc. represent approximately 9% of our total worldwide net revenue; and our top five retail customers currently represent approximately 26% of our 2005 north american net revenue, with wal-mart representing approximately 11%. these percentages include concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including our retailers and anchor bottlers, to effectively compete. loss of any of our key customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see our customers , our related party bottlers and note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our anchor bottlers. 8 table of contents our business may be adversely impacted by unfavorable economic or environmental conditions or political or other developments and risks in the countries in which we operate. unfavorable global economic or environmental changes, political conditions or other developments may result in business disruption, supply constraints, foreign currency devaluation, inflation, deflation or decreased demand. economic conditions in north america could also adversely impact growth. for example, rising fuel costs may impact the sales of our products in convenience stores where our products are generally sold in higher margin single serve packages. our international operations accounted for over a third of our revenue for the period ended december 31, 2005. unstable economic and political conditions or civil unrest in the countries in which we operate could have adverse impacts on our business results or financial condition. regulatory decisions and changes in the legal and regulatory environment could increase our costs and liabilities or limit our business activities. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. such regulatory environment changes include changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and deceptive marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws and environmental laws, including california proposition 65 and the regulation of water consumption and treatment. in particular, governmental bodies in countries where we operate may impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. see also regulatory environment and environmental compliance. if we are unable to hire or retain key employees, it could have a negative impact on our business. our continued growth requires us to develop our leadership bench and to implement programs, such as our long-term incentive program, designed to retain talent. however, there is no assurance that we will continue to be able to hire or retain key employees. we compete to hire new employees, and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee 9 table of contents benefit costs. any unplanned turnover could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs or shortages of raw materials. we are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy. the raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental controls. we purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. if commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating income. our business could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. we compete against global, regional and private label manufacturers on the basis of price, quality, product variety and effective distribution. increased competition and anticipated actions by our competitors could lead to downward pressure on prices and/or a decline in our market share, either of which could adversely affect our results. see our competition for more information about our competitors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 98 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk included in item 7. management discussion and analysis our business risks .risk factors 7 risk factors forward-looking and cautionary statements we discuss expectations regarding our future performance, such as our business outlook, in our annual and quarterly reports, press releases, and other written and oral statements. these forward-looking statements are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data and our operating plans. they are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could turn out to be significantly different from our expectations. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. the following discussion of risks is by no means all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our trends and future results. demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively. we are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. any significant changes in consumer preferences and any inability on our part to anticipate and react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. our success depends on our ability to respond to consumer trends, such as consumer health concerns about obesity, product attributes and ingredients. in addition, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population, changes in social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns, weather, negative publicity resulting from regulatory action or litigation against companies in the industry, or a downturn in economic conditions. any of these changes may reduce consumers willingness to purchase our products. our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products, and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to our continued ability either to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products, or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. in addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. our failure to successfully launch new products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs. any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. if we fail to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, our reputation 7 table of contents could be jeopardized. adverse publicity about these types of concerns or the incidence of product contamination or tampering, whether or not valid, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. if any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, misbranded or causes injury, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability. a widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities or adverse publicity regarding our responses to health concerns, our environmental impacts, including agricultural materials, packaging, energy and water use and waste management, or other sustainability issues, could also jeopardize our reputation. failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these reasons could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. if we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, our business could suffer. we depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. we have embarked on a multi-year business process transformation (bpt) initiative that includes the delivery of an sap enterprise resource planning application, as well as the migration to common business processes across our operations. there can be no certainty that these programs will deliver the expected benefits. the failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. in addition, the failure to either deliver the application on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability and that of our suppliers, business partners, including bottlers, contract manufacturers, independent distributors and retailers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution 8 table of contents capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics such as avian flu, strikes or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. trade consolidation, the loss of any key customer, or failure to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners could adversely affect our financial performance. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including our retailers and bottling partners, to effectively compete. there is a greater concentration of our customer base around the world generally due to the continued consolidation of retail trade. as retail ownership becomes more concentrated, retailers demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, as larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. failure to appropriately respond to these trends or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance. retail consolidation continues to increase the importance of major customers. sales to wal-mart represent approximately 9% of our total net revenue; and our top five retail customers currently represent approximately 26% of our 2006 north american net revenue, with wal-mart representing approximately 13%. these percentages include concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers . loss of any of our key customers, including wal-mart, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, if we are unable to provide an appropriate mix of incentives to our bottlers through a combination of advertising and marketing support, they may take actions that, while maximizing their own short-term profit, may be detrimental to us or our brands. such actions could have an adverse effect on our profitability. see our customers and our related party bottlers contained in item 7. management discussion and analysis and note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our anchor bottlers. our business may be adversely impacted by unfavorable economic or environmental conditions or political or other developments and risks in the countries in which we operate. unfavorable global economic or environmental changes, political conditions or other developments may result in business disruption, supply constraints, foreign currency devaluation, inflation, deflation or decreased demand. unstable economic and political conditions or civil unrest in the countries in which we operate could have adverse impacts on our business results or financial condition. our operations outside of the u.s. accounted for 41% and 36% of our net revenue and operating profit, respectively, for the year ended december 30, 2006. our continued success depends on our ability to 9 table of contents broaden and strengthen our presence in emerging markets, such as brazil, russia, india and china, and to create scale in key international markets. regulatory decisions and changes in the legal and regulatory environment could increase our costs and liabilities or limit our business activities. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. such regulatory environment changes include changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and deceptive marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. in particular, governmental bodies in jurisdictions where we operate may impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. for example, proposition 65 in california requires that a warning be given for any product that exposes consumers to a substance listed by the state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. if we were required to label any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold in california under proposition 65, sales of those products could suffer not only in california but elsewhere as a result of the adverse publicity. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. see also regulatory environment and environmental compliance. if we are unable to hire or retain key employees or outsource certain functions effectively, it could have a negative impact on our business. our continued growth requires us to develop our leadership bench and to implement programs, such as our long-term incentive program, designed to retain talent. however, there is no assurance that we will continue to be able to hire or retain key employees. we compete to hire new employees, and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee 10 table of contents benefit costs. any unplanned turnover could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers that we outsource these functions to do not perform effectively we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. we and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business, including aspartame, cocoa, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruits and other fruits, juice and juice concentrates, oats, oranges, potatoes, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. our key packaging materials include aluminum used for cans, pet resin used for plastic bottles, film packaging used for snack foods, and cardboard. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and in the trucks delivering our products. some of these raw materials and supplies are available from a limited number of suppliers. we are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy. the raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental controls. we purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. if commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating income. our profitability may also be adversely impacted due to water scarcity and regulation. water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. as demand for water continues to increase, we and our business partners may face disruption of supply or increased costs to obtain the water needed to produce our products. our business could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. we compete against global, regional and private label manufacturers on the basis of price, quality, product variety and effective distribution. increased competition and anticipated actions by our competitors could lead to downward pressure on prices and/or a decline in our market share, either of which could adversely affect our results. see our competition for more information about our competitors. 11 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 105 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk included in item 7. management discussion and analysis our business risks .risk factors 8 risk factor forward-looking and cautionary statements we discuss expectations regarding our future performance, such as our business outlook, in our annual and quarterly reports, press releases, and other written and oral statements. these forward-looking statements are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. they inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in any such forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our trends and future results. demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively. we are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. any significant changes in consumer preferences and any inability on our part to anticipate and react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. our success depends on our ability to respond to consumer trends, such as consumer health concerns about obesity, product attributes and ingredients. in addition, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population, changes in social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns, weather, negative publicity resulting from regulatory action or litigation against companies in the industry, or a downturn in economic conditions. any of these changes may reduce consumers willingness to purchase our products. see also changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation below. 8 table of contents our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products, and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to our continued ability either to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products, or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. in addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. our failure to successfully launch new products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs. any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. if we fail to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, our reputation could be jeopardized. adverse publicity about these types of concerns or the incidence of product contamination or tampering, whether or not valid, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. if any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, misbranded or causes injury, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability. a widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities or adverse publicity regarding our responses to health concerns, our environmental impacts, including agricultural materials, packaging, energy and water use and waste management, or other sustainability issues, could jeopardize our reputation. failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these reasons could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. if we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively our business could suffer. we depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. we have embarked on a multi-year business transformation initiative that includes the delivery of an sap enterprise resource planning application, as well as the migration to 9 table of contents common business processes across our operations. there can be no certainty that these programs will deliver the expected benefits. the failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. in addition, the failure to either deliver the application on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers that we outsource these functions to do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale. our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. we and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business, including aspartame, cocoa, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruits and other fruits, juice and juice concentrates, oats, oranges, potatoes, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. our key packaging materials include pet resin used for plastic bottles, film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles and cardboard. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and in the trucks delivering our products. some of these raw materials and supplies are available from a limited number of suppliers. we are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy. the raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental controls. we purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. if commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating income. our profitability may also be adversely impacted due to water scarcity and regulation. water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. as demand for water continues to increase, we and our business partners may face disruption of supply or increased costs to obtain the water needed to produce our products. 10 table of contents our business could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. we compete against global, regional and private label manufacturers on the basis of price, quality, product variety and effective distribution. increased competition and actions by our competitors could lead to downward pressure on prices and/or a decline in our market share, either of which could adversely affect our results. see our competition for more information about our competitors. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability and that of our suppliers, business partners, including bottlers, contract manufacturers, independent distributors and retailers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics such as avian flu, strikes or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. trade consolidation, the loss of any key customer, or failure to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners could adversely affect our financial performance. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including our retailers and bottling partners, to effectively compete. there is a greater concentration of our customer base around the world generally due to the continued consolidation of retail trade. as retail ownership becomes more concentrated, retailers demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, as larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. failure to appropriately respond to these trends or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance. retail consolidation continues to increase the importance of major customers. in 2007, sales to wal-mart (including sam s) represented approximately 12% of our total net revenue. our top five retail customers represented approximately 31% of our 2007 north american net revenue, with wal-mart (including sam s) representing approximately 18%. these percentages include concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers . loss of any of our key customers, including wal-mart, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 table of contents furthermore, if we are unable to provide an appropriate mix of incentives to our bottlers through a combination of advertising and marketing support, they may take actions that, while maximizing their own short-term profit, may be detrimental to us or our brands. such actions could have an adverse effect on our profitability. in addition, any deterioration of our relationships with our bottlers could adversely affect our business or financial performance. see our customers and our related party bottlers contained in item 7. management discussion and analysis and note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our anchor bottlers. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. such regulatory environment changes include changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and deceptive marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. in particular, governmental bodies in jurisdictions where we operate may impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. for example, we are one of several companies that have been sued by the state of california under proposition 65 to force warnings that certain potato-based products contain acrylamide. acrylamide is a chemical compound naturally formed in a wide variety of foods when they are cooked (whether commercially or at home), including french fries, potato chips, cereal, bread and coffee. it is believed that acrylamide may cause cancer in laboratory animals when consumed in significant amounts. studies are underway by various regulatory authorities and others to assess the effect on humans due to acrylamide in the diet. if we were required to label any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold in california under proposition 65, sales of those products could suffer not only in california but elsewhere. in addition, if consumer concerns about acrylamide increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, or for any other reason, whether or not valid, demand for our products could decline and we could be subject to additional lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as 12 table of contents product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. see also regulatory environment and environmental compliance. if we are unable to hire or retain key employees, it could have a negative impact on our business. our continued growth requires us to develop our leadership bench and to implement programs, such as our long-term incentive program, designed to retain talent. however, there is no assurance that we will continue to be able to hire or retain key employees. we compete to hire new employees, and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. any unplanned turnover could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. our business may be adversely impacted by unfavorable economic or environmental conditions or political or other developments and risks in the countries in which we operate. unfavorable global economic or environmental changes, political conditions or other developments may result in business disruption, supply constraints, foreign currency devaluation, inflation, deflation or decreased demand. unstable economic and political conditions or civil unrest in the countries in which we operate could have adverse impacts on our business results or financial condition. our operations outside of the united states accounted for 44% and 35% of our net revenue and operating profit, respectively, for the year ended december 29, 2007. our continued success depends on our ability to broaden and strengthen our presence in emerging markets, such as brazil, russia, india and china, and to create scale in key international markets. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 105 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk included in item 7. management discussion and analysis our business risks .risk factors 9 risk factors forward-looking and cautionary statements we discuss expectations regarding our future performance, such as our business outlook, in our annual and quarterly reports, press releases, and other written and oral statements. these forward-looking statements are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. they inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in any such forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance. 9 table of contents demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively. we are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. our success depends on our ability to respond to consumer trends, including concerns of consumers regarding obesity, product attributes and ingredients. in addition, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population, changes in social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns, weather, negative publicity resulting from regulatory action or litigation against companies in our industry, a downturn in economic conditions or taxes specifically targeting the consumption of our products. any of these changes may reduce consumers willingness to purchase our products. see also the discussions under the global economic crisis has resulted in unfavorable economic conditions and increased volatility in foreign exchange rates and may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. and changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products, and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and marketing programs. although we devote significant resources to meet this goal, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability either to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products, or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. in addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. our failure to successfully launch new products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs. 10 table of contents our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. we and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business, including aspartame, cocoa, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruits and other fruits, juice and juice concentrates, oats, oranges, potatoes, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. our key packaging materials include pet resin used for plastic bottles, film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles and cardboard. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and in the trucks delivering our products. some of these raw materials and supplies are available from a limited number of suppliers. we are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy. the raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental controls. we purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. if commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating income. see also the discussion under the global economic crisis has resulted in unfavorable economic conditions and increased volatility in foreign exchange rates and may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. 11 table of contents the global economic crisis has resulted in unfavorable economic conditions and increased volatility in foreign exchange rates and may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. the global economic crisis has resulted in unfavorable economic conditions in many of the countries in which we operate. our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by these unfavorable economic conditions, including: adverse changes in interest rates or tax rates; volatile commodity markets; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace potentially impairing our ability to access the capital markets on terms commercially acceptable to us, or at all; the effects of government initiatives to manage economic conditions; reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow-down in the general global economy or a shift in consumer preferences to private label products for economic reasons; or a further decrease in the fair value of pension assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension plans. the global economic crisis has also resulted in increased foreign exchange rate volatility. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars. as a result, our profitability may be adversely impacted by an adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates. in addition, we cannot predict how current or worsening economic conditions will affect our critical customers, suppliers and distributors and any negative impact on our critical customers, suppliers or distributors may also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. if we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively our business could suffer. we depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. we have embarked on a multi-year business transformation initiative that includes the delivery of an sap enterprise resource planning application, as well as the migration to common business processes across our operations. there can be no certainty that these programs will deliver the expected benefits. the failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. in addition, the failure to either deliver the application on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. 12 table of contents in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers that we outsource these functions to do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale. our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. if we fail to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, our reputation could be jeopardized. adverse publicity about these types of concerns or the incidence of product contamination or tampering, whether or not valid, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. if any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, misbranded or causes injury, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability. a widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities or adverse publicity regarding our responses to health concerns, our environmental impacts, including agricultural materials, packaging, energy use and waste management, or other sustainability issues, could jeopardize our reputation. in addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. our reputation could be damaged if we do not act responsibly with respect to water use. failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. 13 table of contents trade consolidation, the loss of any key customer, or failure to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners could adversely affect our financial performance. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including our retailers and bottling partners, to effectively compete. there is a greater concentration of our customer base around the world generally due to the continued consolidation of retail trade. as retail ownership becomes more concentrated, retailers demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, as larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. failure to appropriately respond to these trends or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance. retail consolidation and the current economic environment continue to increase the importance of major customers. loss of any of our key customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, if we are unable to provide an appropriate mix of incentives to our bottlers through a combination of advertising and marketing support, they may take actions that, while maximizing their own short-term profit, may be detrimental to us or our brands. such actions could have an adverse effect on our profitability. in addition, any deterioration of our relationships with our bottlers could adversely affect our business or financial performance. see our customers and our related party bottlers contained in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our anchor bottlers. if we are unable to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business. our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. we compete to hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. in addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. 14 table of contents changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. such regulatory environment changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to advertising and deceptive marketing practices; accounting standards; taxation requirements, including taxes specifically targeting the consumption of our products; competition laws; and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. in particular, governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where we operate may impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. for example, studies are underway by various regulatory authorities and others to assess the effect on humans due to acrylamide in the diet. acrylamide is a chemical compound naturally formed in a wide variety of foods when they are cooked (whether commercially or at home), including french fries, potato chips, cereal, bread and coffee. it is believed that acrylamide may cause cancer in laboratory animals when consumed in significant amounts. if consumer concerns about acrylamide increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, or for any other reason, whether or not valid, demand for our products could decline and we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are also subject to proposition 65 in california, a law which requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. if we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. see also regulatory environment and environmental compliance. 15 table of contents disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability and that of our suppliers, business partners, including bottlers, contract manufacturers, independent distributors and retailers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to adverse weather conditions, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities, pandemic, strikes and other labor disputes or other reasons beyond our or their control, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the countries where we operate may adversely impact our business. our operations outside of the united states contribute significantly to our revenue and profitability. unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the countries where we operate could have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. factors that could adversely affect our business results in these countries include: import and export restrictions; foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets; regulations on the repatriation of funds; and currency hyperinflation or devaluation. in addition, disruption in these markets due to political instability or civil unrest could result in a decline in consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 123 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks .risk factors 11 risk factors forward-looking and cautionary statements we discuss expectations regarding our future performance, such as our business outlook, in our annual and quarterly reports, press releases, and other written and oral statements. these forward-looking statements are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. they inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in any such forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance. risks relating to the company and our business demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively. we are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. our success depends on our ability to respond to consumer trends, including concerns of consumers regarding health and wellness, obesity, product attributes and ingredients. in addition, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population, changes in social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns, weather, negative publicity resulting from regulatory action or litigation against 11 table of contents companies in our industry, a downturn in economic conditions or taxes specifically targeting the consumption of our products. any of these changes may reduce consumers willingness to purchase our products. see also the discussions under the global economic downturn has resulted in unfavorable economic conditions and increased volatility in foreign exchange rates and may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. and changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products, and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs and product packaging. although we devote significant resources to meet this goal, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability either to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products, or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. in addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. our failure to successfully launch new products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs. any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. if we fail to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials obtained from our suppliers, our reputation could be jeopardized. adverse publicity about these types of concerns or the incidence of product contamination or tampering, whether or not valid, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. if any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, misbranded or causes injury, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability. a widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities or adverse publicity regarding our responses to health concerns, our environmental impacts, including agricultural materials, packaging, energy use and waste management, or other sustainability issues, could jeopardize our reputation. in addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. our reputation could be damaged if we do not act responsibly with respect to water use. failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. 12 table of contents trade consolidation, the loss of any key customer, or failure to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners could adversely affect our financial performance. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including wal-mart, as well as other retailers and our bottling partners, to effectively compete. there is a greater concentration of our customer base around the world generally due to the continued consolidation of retail trade. as retail ownership becomes more concentrated, retailers demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, as larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. failure to appropriately respond to these trends or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance. retail consolidation and the current economic environment continue to increase the importance of major customers. loss of any of our key customers, including wal-mart, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, if we are unable to provide an appropriate mix of incentives to our bottlers through a combination of advertising and marketing support, they may take actions that, while maximizing their own short-term profit, may be detrimental to us or our brands. such actions could have an adverse effect on our profitability. in addition, any deterioration of our relationships with our bottlers could adversely affect our business or financial performance. see our customers and our related party bottlers contained in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our anchor bottlers. if we are unable to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business. our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. we compete to hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. furthermore, if any of our key employees or key employees of either pbg or pas depart because of issues relating to the pbg merger and the pas merger such as the uncertainty, difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the post-merger entity, our ongoing business could be harmed. in addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. 13 table of contents our performance could be adversely affected as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the countries where we operate or if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets. our operations outside of the united states contribute significantly to our revenue and profitability. unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the countries where we operate could also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. factors that could adversely affect our business results in these countries include: import and export restrictions; foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets; regulations on the repatriation of funds which from time to time result in significant cash balances in countries such as venezuela; and currency hyperinflation or devaluation. in addition, disruption in these markets due to political instability or civil unrest could result in a decline in consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products. we believe that our businesses in developing and emerging markets present an important future growth opportunity for us. if we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging and developing markets for any of the reasons described above, as a result of increased competition in these countries from multinationals or local competitors, or for any other reason, our growth rate could be adversely affected. see also our performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. such regulatory environment changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to advertising and deceptive marketing practices; accounting standards; taxation requirements, including taxes specifically targeting the consumption of our products; competition laws; and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where we operate may also impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. for example, studies are underway by various regulatory authorities and others to assess the effect on humans due to acrylamide in the diet. acrylamide is a chemical compound naturally formed in a wide variety of foods when they are cooked (whether commercially or at home), including french fries, potato chips, cereal, bread and coffee. it is believed that acrylamide may cause cancer in laboratory animals when consumed in significant amounts. if consumer concerns about acrylamide increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, or for any other reason, whether or not valid, demand for 14 table of contents our products could decline and we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are also subject to proposition 65 in california, a law which requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. if we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. see also regulatory environment and environmental compliance. if we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively our business could suffer. we depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. we have embarked on a multi-year business transformation initiative that includes the delivery of an sap enterprise resource planning application, as well as the migration to common business processes across our operations. there can be no certainty that these programs will deliver the expected benefits. the failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. in addition, the failure to either deliver the application on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers that we outsource these functions to do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale. 15 table of contents our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. the global economic downturn has resulted in unfavorable economic conditions and increased volatility in foreign exchange rates and may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. the global economic downturn has resulted in unfavorable economic conditions in many of the countries in which we operate. our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by these unfavorable economic conditions, including: adverse changes in interest rates or tax rates; volatile commodity markets; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace potentially impairing our ability to access the capital markets on terms commercially acceptable to us; the effects of government initiatives to manage economic conditions; reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow-down in the general global economy or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons to private label products or to less profitable channels; or a further decrease in the fair value of pension assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension plans. the global economic downturn has also resulted in increased foreign exchange rate volatility. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars. as a result, our profitability may be adversely impacted by an adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates. in addition, we cannot predict how current or worsening economic conditions will affect our critical customers, suppliers and distributors and any negative impact on our critical customers, suppliers or distributors may also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. our performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. the food and beverage industries in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with major international food and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers. in many countries where we do business, including the united states, the coca-cola company, is our primary beverage competitor. we compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety, distribution, marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. if we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to gain or maintain share of sales or gross margins in the global market or in various local markets. this may have a material adverse impact on our revenues and profit margins. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. we and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business, including apple and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, 16 table of contents corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruits and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. our key packaging materials include plastic resins including polyethylene terephthalate (pet) and polypropylene resin used for plastic beverage bottles, film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles and cardboard. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and in the trucks delivering our products. some of these raw materials and supplies are available from a limited number of suppliers. we are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy. the raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental controls. we purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. if commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating income. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. certain of these derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. see also the discussion under the global economic downturn has resulted in unfavorable economic conditions and increased volatility in foreign exchange rates and may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition , market risks contained in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability and that of our suppliers, business partners, including bottlers, contract manufacturers, independent distributors and retailers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to adverse weather conditions, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities, pandemic, strikes and other labor disputes or other reasons beyond our or their control, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. there is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, potatoes and various fruits. 17 table of contents we may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. the increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that currently we are undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency, we and our bottling partners may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. see also disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks relating to the mergers failure to complete the pbg merger and the pas merger may adversely affect our results of operations and prevent us from realizing the full extent of the benefits and cost savings expected from either or both of the pbg merger and the pas merger. the pbg merger and the pas merger are each subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permissible, waiver of certain conditions, including, but not limited to, receipt of the necessary consents and approvals. although we expect to complete both of the mergers, it is possible that either the pbg merger or the pas merger may not be completed. our relationship with pbg or pas may suffer following a failure to complete the pbg merger or the pas merger, as applicable, which could adversely affect our results of operations. failure to complete either merger will also prevent us from realizing the full extent of the benefits and cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the completion of both mergers. see also the mergers are subject to the receipt of certain required clearances or approvals from governmental entities that could prevent or delay their completion or impose conditions that could have a material adverse effect on us. after completion of the mergers, we may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits expected therefrom, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock or other securities. the success of the mergers will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine our business with the businesses of pbg and pas and realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from such combination. while we believe that these cost savings estimates are achievable, it is possible that we will be unable to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all. our cost savings estimates also depend on our ability to combine our business with the businesses of pbg and pas in a manner that permits those cost savings to be realized. if these estimates turn out to be incorrect or we are not able to combine our business with the businesses of pbg and pas successfully, the anticipated cost savings and other benefits, including expected synergies, resulting from the mergers may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of our common stock or other securities may be adversely affected. 18 table of contents specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating our operations with the operations of pbg and pas in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the mergers include, among other things: integrating the manufacturing, distribution, sales and administrative support activities and information technology systems among the companies; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among the companies; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of the mergers. delays encountered in the process of integrating our business with the businesses of pbg and pas could have an adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition after completion of the mergers. although significant benefits, such as increased cost savings, are expected to result from the mergers, there can be no assurance that we will realize any of these anticipated benefits after completion of either or both of the mergers. additionally, significant costs are expected to be incurred in connection with consummating the mergers and integrating the operations of the companies, with a significant portion of such costs being incurred through the first year after completion of the mergers. we continue to assess the magnitude of these costs and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our business with the businesses of pbg and pas. although we believe that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, will offset incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, no assurances can be given that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all. furthermore, the mergers, and the related integration efforts, could result in the departure of key employees or distract management and employees from delivering against base strategies and objectives, which could have a negative impact on our business, and, prior to the completion of the mergers, the businesses of pbg or pas. the mergers are subject to the receipt of certain required clearances or approvals from governmental entities that could prevent or delay their completion or impose conditions that could have a material adverse effect on us. 19 table of contents completion of each of the mergers is conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental clearances or approvals, including, but not limited to, the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the hsr act with respect to such merger. there can be no assurance that these clearances and approvals will be obtained, and, additionally, government authorities from which these clearances and approvals are required may impose conditions on the completion of the pbg merger or the pas merger or require changes to their respective terms. while under the terms of the merger agreements, neither we nor pbg or pas is required, in connection with the pbg merger or the pas merger, as applicable, to enter into any agreement or other undertaking with any such governmental authority with respect to any of our respective or our respective material subsidiaries material businesses, assets or properties, we, pbg and pas have each agreed to use reasonable best efforts to obtain governmental clearances or approvals necessary to complete the applicable merger. if, in order to obtain any clearances or approvals required to complete either the pbg merger or the pas merger, we become subject to any material conditions after completion of the pbg merger or pas merger, as applicable, our business and results of operations after completion of the pbg merger or pas merger, as applicable, may be adversely affected. in addition, there can be no assurances that the commissioners of the ftc will approve the consent decree we signed that was proposed by the staff of the ftc. if the commissioners do not approve the consent decree, the mergers could be prevented or delayed. following completion of the mergers, a greater portion of our workforce will belong to unions. failure to successfully renew collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages could cause our business to suffer. over 25% of current pbg and pas employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. these agreements expire on various dates. strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. the terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency after completion of the mergers. any downgrade of our credit rating could increase our future borrowing costs. following the public announcement of the pbg merger agreement and the pas merger agreement, moody investors service (moody s) indicated that it was reviewing our ratings for possible downgrade. moody has noted that the additional debt involved in completing the mergers and our consolidated level of indebtedness following completion of the mergers could result in a rating lower than the current rating level. also following the public announcement of the pbg merger agreement and the pas merger agreement, standard &amp; poor ratings services (s&amp;p) indicated that its outlook on pepsico was negative and it could lower our ratings. s&amp;p has indicated that when additional information becomes available s&amp;p will review whether, following completion of the pbg merger and the pas merger, any of our senior unsecured debt will, in s&amp;p view, be structurally subordinated, which could result in a lower rating for pepsico debt securities. a downgrade by either moody or s&amp;p could increase our future borrowing costs. 20 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 123 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks.risk factors 12 risk factors changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. outside the united states, we are subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws and regulations. in addition, in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. we rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as local in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business. legislation has been enacted in certain u.s. states and in certain of the countries in which our products are sold that requires collection and recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers unless a deposit or other fee is charged. it is possible that similar or more restrictive legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. in addition, proposals have been introduced in certain jurisdictions in which we operate which would impose special taxes on products we sell. for example, various federal, state and local government officials have raised the possibility of taxing the sale of certain sugared beverages, including non-diet soft drinks, fruit drinks, teas and flavored waters, to help pay for the cost of certain government programs. the cost of compliance with u.s. and foreign laws does not have a material financial impact on our operations. 10 table of contents we are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the united states and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater and air emissions, handling and disposal of waters, and, in the united states, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the resource conservation and recovery act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, release and disposal of wastes at on-site and off-site locations. we are committed to meeting all applicable environmental compliance requirements. we and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. while neither the results of these proceedings nor any indemnification obligations or other liabilities of our subsidiaries in connection therewith can be predicted with certainty, environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. see also item 1a. risk factors changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. employees as of december 25, 2010, we employed approximately 294,000 people worldwide, including approximately 108,000 people within the united states. our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. we or our subsidiaries are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. we expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. we believe that relations with our employees are generally good. available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are also available free of charge on our internet site at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. forward-looking and cautionary statements this annual report on form 10-k contains statements reflecting our views about our future performance that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (the reform act ). statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the reform act are generally identified through the inclusion of words such as believe, expect, intend, estimate, project, anticipate, will and variations of such words and other similar expressions. all statements addressing our future operating performance, and statements addressing events and developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the reform act. these forward-looking statements are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. they inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in any such forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance. demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively. we are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. our success depends on our ability to respond to consumer trends, including concerns of consumers regarding health and wellness, obesity, product attributes and ingredients, and to expand into adjacent categories. for example, if we are unable to grow our core salty snack brands while expanding into adjacent categories like crackers, bread bites and baked snacks, our growth rate may be adversely affected. in addition, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population, changes in social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns, weather, seasonal consumption cycles, negative publicity resulting from regulatory action or litigation against companies in our industry, a downturn in economic conditions or taxes specifically targeting the consumption of our products. any of these changes may reduce consumers willingness to purchase our products. see also any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. , changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our 12 table of contents operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , unfavorable economic conditions in the countries in which we operate may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. and our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products and improving the quality of existing products, and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs and product packaging. although we devote significant resources to meet this goal, including the development of our global nutrition group, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products, to grow our nutrition business or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. in addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. our failure to successfully launch new products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs. any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. product contamination or tampering or the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials obtained from suppliers, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. if any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, misbranded or causes injury, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability. a widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities; the failure to achieve our human, environmental and talent sustainability goals, including our goals with respect to sodium, saturated fat and sugar reduction and the development of our nutrition business; or our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use and waste management, or our responses to any of the foregoing. in addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. our reputation could be damaged if we do not act responsibly with respect to water use. failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. 13 table of contents our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where we operate. our operations outside of the united states contribute significantly to our revenue and profitability, and we believe that our businesses in developing and emerging markets, particularly china, present an important future growth opportunity for us. however, there can be no assurance that our existing products, variants of our existing products or new products that we develop will be accepted or successful in any particular developing or emerging market, due to local competition, cultural differences or otherwise. if we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging and developing markets as a result of economic and political conditions, increased competition, an inability to acquire or form strategic business alliances or to make necessary infrastructure investments or for any other reason, our financial performance could be adversely affected. unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where we operate, including in the middle east and egypt, could also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. factors that could adversely affect our business results in these markets include: import and export restrictions; foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets; regulations on the repatriation of funds which, from time to time, result in significant cash balances in countries such as venezuela; and currency hyperinflation or devaluation. in addition, disruption in these markets due to political instability or civil unrest could result in a decline in consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products. see also demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively. and our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. trade consolidation or the loss of any key customer could adversely affect our financial performance. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including wal-mart, as well as other retailers, to effectively compete. there is a greater concentration of our customer base around the world, generally due to the continued consolidation of retail trade and the loss of any of our key customers, including wal-mart, could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. in addition, as retail ownership becomes more concentrated, retailers demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, as larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. failure to appropriately respond to these trends or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance. 14 table of contents changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. these laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. such regulatory environment changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to advertising and deceptive marketing practices; accounting standards; taxation requirements, including taxes specifically targeting the consumption of our products; competition laws; privacy laws; and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where we operate may also impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. for example, studies are underway by various regulatory authorities and others to assess the effect on humans due to acrylamide in the diet. acrylamide is a chemical compound naturally formed in a wide variety of foods when they are cooked (whether commercially or at home), including french fries, potato chips, cereal, bread and coffee. it is believed that acrylamide may cause cancer in laboratory animals when consumed in significant amounts. studies are also underway by third parties to assess the health implications of carbonated soft drink consumption. if consumer concerns about acrylamide or carbonated soft drinks increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, or for any other reason, whether or not valid, demand for our products could decline and we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are also subject to proposition 65 in california, a law which requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. if we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations of 15 table of contents businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. we cannot assure you that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. see also item 1. business regulatory environment and environmental compliance. if we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively, our business could suffer. we depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or the loss of sensitive data through security breach or otherwise. we have embarked on multi-year business transformation initiatives to migrate certain of our financial processing systems to an enterprise-wide systems solution. there can be no certainty that these initiatives will deliver the expected benefits. the failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. in addition, the failure to either deliver the application on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers that we outsource these functions to do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach or otherwise, or harm employee morale. our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. unfavorable economic conditions in the countries in which we operate may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. many of the countries in which we operate, including the united states, have experienced and continue to experience unfavorable 16 table of contents economic conditions. our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by these unfavorable economic conditions, including: adverse changes in interest rates or tax rates; volatile commodity markets; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace, potentially impairing our ability to access the capital markets on terms commercially acceptable to us; the effects of government initiatives to manage economic conditions; reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow-down in the general global economy or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other economy products, or to less profitable channels; or a decrease in the fair value of pension assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension plans. in addition, we cannot predict how current or worsening economic conditions will affect our critical customers, suppliers and distributors and any negative impact on our critical customers, suppliers or distributors may also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars. in 2010, our operations outside of the u.s. generated a significant portion of our net revenue. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may therefore adversely impact our business results or financial condition. see also market risks contained in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. the food and beverage industries in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with major international food and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. in many countries where we do business, including the united states, the coca-cola company, is our primary beverage competitor. we compete on the basis of brand recognition, price, quality, product variety, distribution, marketing and promotional activity, convenience, service and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. if we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to gain or maintain share of sales or gross margins in the global market or in various local markets. this may have a material adverse impact on our revenues and profit margins. see also unfavorable economic conditions in the countries in which we operate may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. 17 table of contents our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. we and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business, including apple and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruits and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (pet) and polypropylene resin used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and in the trucks delivering our products. some of these raw materials and supplies are available from a limited number of suppliers. we are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy. the raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental controls. we purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. if commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating results. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. certain of these derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. see also unfavorable economic conditions in the countries in which we operate may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. and market risks contained in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability and that of our suppliers, business partners, including our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, independent distributors and retailers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to adverse weather conditions, government action, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities, pandemic, strikes and other labor disputes or other reasons beyond our or their control, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. 18 table of contents climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. there is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, potatoes and various fruits. we may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. the increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. see also disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business. our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. we compete to hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. in addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. a portion of our workforce belongs to unions. failure to successfully renew collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages could cause our business to suffer. many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. these agreements expire on various dates. strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. the terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. 19 table of contents failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in 2010, we acquired the pepsi bottling group, inc. and pepsiamericas, inc., and we recently acquired approximately 77% of wimm-bill-dann foods ojsc (wbd). we also regularly evaluate opportunities for strategic growth through tuck-in acquisitions and joint ventures. potential issues associated with these and other acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things, our ability to realize the full extent of the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the completion of the acquisition or the formation of the joint venture within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management attention from base strategies and objectives; and, with respect to acquisitions, our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company in a manner that permits cost savings to be realized, including integrating the manufacturing, distribution, sales and administrative support activities and information technology systems among our company and the acquired company, motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees, conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company, consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures, consolidating sales and marketing operations, retaining existing customers and attracting new customers, identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets, coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of the acquisitions. in addition, acquisitions outside of the united states, including the wbd acquisition, increase our exposure to risks associated with foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and compliance with foreign laws and regulations. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 133 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks.risk factors 11 and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks in item 7. investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance. part i item 1. business. pepsico, inc. was incorporated in delaware in 1919 and was reincorporated in north carolina in 1986. when used in this report, the terms we, us, our, pepsico and the company mean pepsico, inc. and its divisions and subsidiaries. we are a leading global food and beverage company with hundreds of brands that are respected household names throughout the world. either independently or through contract manufacturers or authorized bottlers, we make, market, sell and distribute a variety of convenient and enjoyable foods and beverages in more than 200 countries and territories. we continue to be guided by performance with purpose our belief that what is good for business can and should be good for society. our commitment to deliver sustainable growth by investing in a healthier future for people and our planet is as much of a financial decision as it is an ethical one. in 2011, pepsico earned a place on the prestigious dow jones sustainability world index for the fifth consecutive year, the north america index for the sixth consecutive year and was ranked as the number one company in the food and beverage supersector. 2 table of contents our operations we are organized into four business units, as follows: 1) pepsico americas foods (paf), which includes frito-lay north america (flna), quaker foods north america (qfna) and all of our latin american food and snack businesses (laf); 2) pepsico americas beverages (pab), which includes all of our north american and latin american beverage businesses; 3) pepsico europe, which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in europe; and 4) pepsico asia, middle east and africa (amea), which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in amea. our four business units are comprised of six reportable segments (referred to as divisions), as follows: flna, qfna, laf, pab, europe, and amea. see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and geographic areas. frito-lay north america either independently or through contract manufacturers, flna makes, markets, sells and distributes branded snack foods. these foods include lay potato chips, doritos tortilla chips, cheetos cheese flavored snacks, tostitos tortilla chips, branded dips, ruffles potato chips, fritos corn chips, sunchips multigrain snacks and santitas tortilla chips. flna branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. in addition, flna joint venture with strauss group makes, markets, sells and distributes sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. flna net revenue was $13.3 billion, $12.6 billion and $12.4 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and approximated 20%, 22% and 29% of our total net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 3 table of contents quaker foods north america either independently or through contract manufacturers, qfna makes, markets, sells and distributes cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. qfna products include quaker oatmeal, aunt jemima mixes and syrups, quaker chewy granola bars, quaker grits, cap n crunch cereal, life cereal, rice-a-roni side dishes, quaker rice cakes, pasta roni and near east side dishes. these branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. qfna net revenue was $2.7 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009 and approximated 4%, 4% and 6% of our total net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. latin america foods either independently or through contract manufacturers, laf makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of snack food brands including marias gamesa, doritos, cheetos, ruffles, saladitas, emperador, tostitos and sabritas, as well as many quaker-brand cereals and snacks. these branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. laf net revenue was $7.2 billion, $6.3 billion and $5.7 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and approximated 11%, 11% and 13% of our total net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. pepsico americas beverages either independently or through contract manufacturers, pab makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including pepsi, gatorade, mountain dew, diet pepsi, aquafina, 7up (outside the u.s.), diet mountain dew, tropicana pure premium, sierra mist and mirinda. pab also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea, coffee and water products through joint ventures with unilever (under the lipton brand name) and starbucks. in addition, pab licenses the aquafina water brand to its independent bottlers. furthermore, pab manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from dr pepper snapple group, inc. (dpsg), including dr pepper and crush. pab operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. pab also sells concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized bottlers, and some of these branded finished goods are sold directly by us to independent distributors and retailers. we and the independent bottlers sell our brands as finished goods to independent distributors and retailers. pab net revenue was $22.4 billion, $20.4 billion and $10.1 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and approximated 34%, 35% and 23% of our total net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. see note 15 for additional information about our acquisitions of the pepsi bottling group, inc. (pbg) and pepsiamericas, inc. (pas) in 2010. europe either independently or through contract manufacturers, europe makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading snack foods including lay s, walkers, doritos, 4 table of contents chudo, cheetos and ruffles, as well as many quaker-brand cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. europe also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, pepsi max, 7up, diet pepsi and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. in certain markets, however, europe operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. in addition, europe licenses the aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized bottlers and markets this brand. europe also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). europe net revenue was $13.6 billion, $9.6 billion and $7.0 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and approximated 20% of our total net revenue in 2011 and 17% of our total net revenue in 2010 and 2009. see note 15 for additional information about our acquisitions of pbg and pas in 2010. also see note 15 for additional information about our acquisition of wimm-bill-dann foods ojsc in 2011. asia, middle east &amp; africa either independently or through contract manufacturers, amea makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading snack food brands including lay s, chipsy, kurkure, doritos, cheetos and smith through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. further, either independently or through contract manufacturers, amea makes, markets and sells many quaker-brand cereals and snacks. amea also makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including pepsi, mirinda, 7up, mountain dew, aquafina and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. however, in certain markets, amea operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. in addition, amea licenses the aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized bottlers. amea also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). amea net revenue was $7.4 billion, $6.3 billion and $5.3 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and approximated 11%, 11% and 12% of our total net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. our distribution network our products are brought to market through direct-store-delivery (dsd), customer warehouse and foodservice and vending distribution networks. the distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. these distribution systems are described under the heading our distribution network contained in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 5 table of contents ingredients and other supplies the principal ingredients we use in our food and beverage businesses are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils and wheat. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (pet) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities for us due to their use in our facilities and in the trucks delivering our products. we employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages. many of these ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivatives. in addition, risk to our supplies of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. when prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our exposure to commodity costs. see also item 1a. risk factors our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. our brands we own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including amp energy, aquafina, aunt jemima, cap n crunch, cheetos, chester s, chipsy, chudo, cracker jack, diet mountain dew, diet pepsi, doritos, duyvis, emperador, frito-lay, fritos, fruktovy sad, frustyle, gamesa, gatorade, g2, g series, grandma s, imunele, izze, kurkure, lay s, life, little house in the village, lubimy sad, manzanita sol, marias gamesa, matutano, mirinda, miss vickie s, mother s, mountain dew, mug, munchies, naked, near east, paso de los toros, pasta roni, pepsi, pepsi max, pepsi one, propel, quaker, quaker chewy, quakes, rice-a-roni, rold gold, ruffles, sabritas, saladitas, sakata, sandora, 7up and diet 7up (outside the united states), santitas, sierra mist, simba, smartfood, smith s, snack a jacks, sobe, sobe lifewater, sonric s, stacy s, sunchips, tonus, tostitos, trop 50, tropicana, tropicana pure premium, tropicana twister, v water, vesely molochnik, walkers and ya. we also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products, including dole and ocean spray. joint ventures in which we participate either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as lipton, starbucks and sabra. trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. we have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. in addition, we license the use of our trademarks on promotional items for the primary purpose of enhancing brand awareness. 6 table of contents we either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to some of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. some of these patents are licensed to others. seasonality our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. for instance, our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food sales are higher in the cooler months. weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. however, taken as a whole, seasonality does not have a material impact on our financial results. our customers our primary customers include wholesale distributors, grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, authorized independent bottlers and foodservice distributors, including hotels and restaurants. we normally grant our independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. these arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality. in 2011, sales to wal-mart stores, inc. (wal-mart), including sam club (sam s), represented approximately 11% of our total net revenue. our top five retail customers represented approximately 30% of our 2011 north american net revenue, with wal-mart (including sam s) representing approximately 18%. these percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. see our customers contained in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our independent bottlers. see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our acquisitions of pbg and pas in 2010. our competition our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. our beverage, snack and food brands compete against global, regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. in u.s. measured channels, our chief beverage competitor, the coca-cola company, has a larger share of carbonated soft drinks (csd) consumption, while we have a larger share of liquid refreshment beverages consumption. in addition, the coca-cola company has a significant csd share advantage in many markets outside the united states. 7 table of contents our snack and food brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack and food industry worldwide. our beverage, snack and food brands compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, the introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging, pricing, increased efficiency in production techniques and brand and trademark development and protection. we believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allows us to compete effectively. (1) the categories and category share information in the charts above are as of december 25, 2011 and are defined by the following source of the information: information resources, inc. the above charts exclude data from certain customers such as wal-mart that do not report data to this service. research and development we engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to invest to accelerate growth in these activities and to drive innovation globally. these activities principally involve the development of new products, improvement in the quality of existing products, improvement and modernization of production processes, and the development and implementation of new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and proposed product lines. our global nutrition group, led by our chief scientific officer, oversees research and development efforts for the company, which are focused on identifying opportunities to transform and grow our product portfolio in the short- and long-term. our research platforms are shared across specializations, countries and regions in order to generate innovation. in 2011, we continued to expand our 8 table of contents portfolio of products made with nutritious ingredients, increasing the amount of whole grains, fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds and low-fat dairy in certain of our products, and we continued to take steps to reduce the average amount of sodium, saturated fat and added sugar per serving in certain of our products. we also invested in agricultural development and the development and implementation of new technologies to both enhance the quality and value of our current and future product lines and to minimize our impact on the environment. we made investments to conserve energy and raw materials, and to reduce waste in our facilities, and to improve our packaging process to continue to reduce total packaging volume, recycle containers, use renewable resources and remove environmentally sensitive materials. consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. research and development costs were $525 million in 2011, $488 million in 2010 and $414 million in 2009 and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses. regulatory environment and environmental compliance the conduct of our businesses, including the production, distribution, sale, advertising, marketing, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the united states in markets in which our products are made, manufactured or sold. it is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. in the united states, we are required to comply with a variety of laws and regulations, including: the food, drug and cosmetic act; the occupational safety and health act; the clean air act; the clean water act; the resource conservation and recovery act; the federal motor carrier safety act; various federal and state laws and regulations governing equal employment opportunity and our employment relationships, including the equal employment opportunity act and the national labor relations act; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations; and laws regulating the sale of certain of our products in schools. in our business dealings, we are also required to comply with the foreign corrupt practices act. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including state consumer protection laws. for example, in california, proposition 65 requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the state of california as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. the state of california continues to evaluate various components and, consequently, food and beverage producers who sell products in california, including pepsico, may be required to provide warning labels on their products. see also item 1a. risk factors changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. outside the united states, we are subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws and regulations. in addition, in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. we rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business. 9 table of contents legislation has been introduced in certain jurisdictions in which we operate that would impose special taxes or other limitations on certain products we sell. for example, certain federal, state and local governments in the united states, and in certain other countries in which we operate, have either imposed or are considering the imposition of taxes on the sale of certain beverages, including non-diet and diet soft drinks, fruit drinks, teas and flavored waters. in the united states, federal and state legislators are also debating proposals to restrict the use of supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits to purchase beverages and foods whose nutritional content exceeds certain levels of sodium, saturated fat and sugar. in addition, legislation has been enacted in certain u.s. states and in certain other countries in which our products are sold that requires collection and recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers unless a deposit or other fee is charged. it is possible that similar or more restrictive legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. the cost of compliance with u.s. and foreign laws does not have a material financial impact on our results of operations. we are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the united states and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater and air emissions. in the united states, our facilities must comply with the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the resource conservation and recovery act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, release and disposal of wastes at on-site and off-site locations. we are committed to meeting all applicable environmental compliance requirements. we and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. while neither the results of these proceedings nor any indemnification obligations or other liabilities of our subsidiaries in connection therewith can be predicted with certainty, environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. see also item 1a. risk factors changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. employees as of december 31, 2011, we employed approximately 297,000 people worldwide, including approximately 107,000 people within the united states. our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. we or our subsidiaries are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. we expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. we believe that relations with our employees are generally good. 10 table of contents available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are also available free of charge on our internet site at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively. we are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive categories and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. our success depends on: our ability to anticipate and respond to shifts in consumer trends, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are increasingly concerned with health and wellness; our product quality; our ability to extend our portfolio of convenient foods in growing markets; our ability to develop new products that are responsive to consumer preferences, including our fun-for-you , good-for-you and better-for-you products; and our ability to respond to competitive product and pricing pressures. for example, our growth rate may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain or grow our current share of the liquid refreshment beverage market in north america, or our current share of the snack market globally, or if demand for our products does not grow in emerging and developing markets. in general, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population; consumer concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients such as sodium, sugar or other product ingredients or attributes; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns; changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; negative 11 table of contents publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory action or litigation against us or other companies in our industry; a downturn in economic conditions; or taxes that would increase the cost of our products to consumers. any of these changes may reduce consumers willingness to purchase our products. see also our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. , unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. , any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. and changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products and improving the quality of existing products, and the effectiveness of our product packaging, advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including our ability to successfully adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, such as through use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. although we devote significant resources to the actions mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. in addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs. our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. the food, snack and beverage industries in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. in many countries where we do business, including the united states, the coca-cola company is our primary beverage competitor. we also compete with other large companies in each of the food, snack and beverage categories, including nestl&eacute; s.a., kraft foods inc. and dr pepper snapple group, inc. we compete on the basis of brand recognition, taste, price, quality, product variety, distribution, marketing and promotional activity, convenience, service and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. if we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or gross margins in the global market or in various local markets. this may have a material adverse impact on our revenues and profit margins. see also unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. many of the countries in which we operate, including the united states and several of the members of the european union, have experienced and continue to experience 12 table of contents unfavorable economic conditions. our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by these unfavorable economic conditions, including: adverse changes in interest rates, tax laws or tax rates; volatile commodity markets and inflation; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace, potentially impairing our ability to access the capital markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all; the effects of government initiatives to manage economic conditions; reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow-down in the general global economy or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other economy products, or to less profitable channels; impairment of assets; or a decrease in the fair value of pension assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension plans. in addition, we cannot predict how current or worsening economic conditions will affect our critical customers, suppliers and distributors and any negative impact on our critical customers, suppliers or distributors may also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. in addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including u.s. and non-u.s. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks, and other financial institutions, may be exposed to a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a major financial institution may limit the availability of credit or willingness of financial institutions to extend credit on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all or, with respect to financial institutions who are parties to our financing arrangements, leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or unhedged against certain currencies or price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials which could have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling or contamination, even if untrue, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. if any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, causes injury or is mislabeled, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability. a widespread product recall or a significant product liability issue could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities; the failure to achieve our goals with respect to sodium, saturated fat and added sugar reduction or the development of our global nutrition business; our research and development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use and waste management; or our responses to any of the foregoing. in addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and demand for water continues to increase. our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use. failure to 13 table of contents comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold. our operations outside of the united states, particularly in russia, mexico, canada and the united kingdom, contribute significantly to our revenue and profitability, and we believe that our businesses in developing and emerging markets, particularly china and india, present important future growth opportunities for us. however, there can be no assurance that our existing products, variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, market or sell will be accepted or successful in any particular developing or emerging market, due to local competition, product price, cultural differences or otherwise. if we are unable to expand our businesses in developing and emerging markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect as a result of our investments, particularly in russia, as a result of economic and political conditions, increased competition, reduced demand for our products, an inability to acquire or form strategic business alliances or to make necessary infrastructure investments or for any other reason, our financial performance could be adversely affected. unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold, including in russia, the middle east and egypt, could also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. factors that could adversely affect our business results in these markets include: foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets; regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, which, from time to time, result in significant cash balances in foreign countries such as venezuela, and on the repatriation of funds; currency hyperinflation or devaluation; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems; and increased costs of business due to compliance with complex foreign and united states laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act, and adverse consequences, such as the assessment of fines or penalties, for failing to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, disruption in these markets due to political instability or civil unrest could result in a decline in consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products. see also item 1. business regulatory environment and environmental compliance. , demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively. , our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. , changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. and disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 table of contents trade consolidation or the loss of any key customer could adversely affect our financial performance. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including wal-mart, as well as other retailers, to effectively compete. the loss of any of our key customers, including wal-mart, could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. in addition, in the event that retail ownership becomes more concentrated, retailers may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. failure to appropriately respond to any such actions or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, including the production, distribution, sale, advertising, marketing, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the united states in markets in which our products are made, manufactured or sold, including in emerging and developing markets where legal and regulatory systems may be less developed. these laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. such changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to product labeling, advertising and marketing practices; laws regarding the import of ingredients used in our products; laws regarding the export of our products; laws and programs aimed at reducing ingredients present in certain of our products, such as sodium, saturated fat and added sugar; increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving, product claims and concerns regarding the effects on health of ingredients in, or attributes of, certain of our products; state consumer protection laws; taxation requirements, including taxes that would increase the cost of our products to consumers; competition laws; privacy laws; laws regulating the price we may charge for our products; laws regulating access to and use of water or utilities; and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where we operate may also impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. studies are underway by third parties to assess the health implications of consumption of carbonated soft drinks as well as certain ingredients present in some of our products. in addition, third-party studies are also underway to assess the effect on humans due to acrylamide in the diet. acrylamide is a chemical compound naturally formed in a wide variety of foods when they are cooked (whether commercially or at home), including french fries, potato 15 table of contents chips, cereal, bread and coffee. certain of these studies have found that it is probable that acrylamide causes cancer in laboratory animals when consumed in extraordinary amounts. if consumer concerns about the health implications of consumption of carbonated soft drinks, certain ingredients present in some of our products or acrylamide increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, or for any other reason, whether or not valid, demand for our products could decline and we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are also subject to proposition 65 in california, a law which requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. if we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees or suppliers could take actions that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations. violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. we cannot assure you that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. see also item 1. business regulatory environment and environmental compliance. and our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold. above. if we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively, our business could suffer. we depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations, to interface with our customers, to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements, and for digital 16 table of contents marketing activities and electronic communication among our locations around the world and between our personnel and the personnel of our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers and suppliers. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property, or the loss of sensitive or confidential data through security breach or otherwise. we have embarked on multi-year business transformation initiatives to migrate certain of our financial processing systems to enterprise-wide systems solutions. there can be no certainty that these initiatives will deliver the expected benefits. the failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. in addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers that we outsource these functions to do not perform or do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach or otherwise, litigation, or remediation costs and could have a negative impact on employee morale. our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting confidential information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets, litigation, remediation costs, damage to our reputation and loss of revenue resulting from unauthorized use of confidential information or failure to retain or attract customers following such an event. fluctuations in exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the united states are translated into u.s. dollars. our operations outside of the u.s. generate a significant portion of our net revenue. fluctuations in exchange rates may therefore adversely impact our business results or financial condition. see also market risks contained in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. 17 table of contents our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. we and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business. the principal ingredients we use include apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (pet) and polypropylene resin used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and facilities and in the trucks delivering our products. some of these raw materials and supplies are sourced internationally and some are available from a limited number of suppliers. we are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy. the raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental controls. we purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. if commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating results. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of certain raw materials. certain of these derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. see also unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. , changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , market risks contained in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability, and that of our suppliers, business partners, including our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, independent distributors and retailers, to make, manufacture, distribute and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to any of the following could impair our ability to make, manufacture, distribute or sell our products: adverse weather conditions or natural disaster, such as a hurricane, earthquake or flooding; government action; fire; terrorism; the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; pandemic; industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; strikes and other labor disputes; or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and business partners. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. 18 table of contents climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. there is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, potatoes and various fruits. we may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. the increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. see also changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. and disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business. our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. we compete to hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions, including our chief executive officer, or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. in addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. 19 table of contents a portion of our workforce belongs to unions. failure to successfully renew collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages could cause our business to suffer. many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. these agreements expire on various dates. strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. the terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete divestitures, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we regularly evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures. potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things, our ability to realize the full extent of the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the completion of an acquisition or the formation of a joint venture within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with an acquisition or joint venture; and diversion of management attention from base strategies and objectives. in 2011, we acquired wimm-bill-dann foods ojsc (wbd), a russian company. we continue to assess wbd business practices, policies and procedures as well as its compliance with our worldwide code of conduct and applicable laws and, as described under item 9a. controls and procedures, we are in the process of integrating wbd into our overall internal control over financial reporting processes. with respect to acquisitions, including but not limited to the acquisition of wbd, the following also pose potential risks: our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the manufacturing, distribution, sales and administrative support activities and information technology systems among our company and the acquired company and successfully operating in new categories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of the acquisitions. with respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. in addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the united states increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the united states, including fluctuations in exchange rates and compliance with laws and regulations outside the united states. with respect to divestitures, we may not be able to complete proposed divestitures on terms commercially favorable to us. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, or if a divestiture is not successfully completed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. 20 table of contents failure to successfully implement our global operating model could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we recently created the global beverages group and the global snacks group, both of which are focused on innovation, research and development, brand management and best-practice sharing around the world, as well as collaborating with our global nutrition group to grow our nutrition portfolio. if we are unable to successfully implement our global operating model, including retention of key employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity plan could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are implementing a strategic plan that we believe will position our business for future success and growth, to allow us to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food, snack and beverage industries. in order to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. in addition, it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plan. our future success and earnings growth depends in part on our ability to reduce costs and improve efficiencies. if we are unable to successfully implement our productivity plan or fail to implement it as timely as we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings. our objective is to maintain credit ratings that provide us with ready access to global capital and credit markets. any downgrade of our current credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all. in addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade. our intellectual property rights could be infringed or challenged and reduce the value of our products and brands and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, 21 table of contents business processes and other trade secrets which are important to our business and relate to some of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see also changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 126 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks.risk factors 10 and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks in item 7. investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance. part i item 1. business. pepsico, inc. was incorporated in delaware in 1919 and was reincorporated in north carolina in 1986. when used in this report, the terms we, us, our, pepsico and the company mean pepsico, inc. and its divisions and subsidiaries. we are a leading global food and beverage company with brands that are respected household names throughout the world. through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other partners, we make, market, sell and distribute a wide variety of convenient and enjoyable foods and beverages, serving customers and consumers in more than 200 countries and territories. our management monitors a variety of key indicators to evaluate our business results and financial condition. these indicators include market share, volume, net revenue, operating profit, management operating cash flow, earnings per share and return on invested capital. performance with purpose is our vision to succeed in the long term by creating sustained value. pepsico was again recognized for its leadership in this area in 2012 by earning a place on the prestigious dow jones sustainability world index for the sixth consecutive year and on the north america index for the seventh consecutive year. we plan to continue delivering on this vision by offering a wide range of product choices, finding innovative ways to cut costs and minimize our impact on the environment, providing a safe and inclusive workplace and respecting and investing in the communities in which we operate. 2 table of contents our operations we are organized into four business units, as follows: 1) pepsico americas foods, which includes frito-lay north america (flna), quaker foods north america (qfna) and all of our latin american food and snack businesses (laf); 2) pepsico americas beverages (pab), which includes all of our north american and latin american beverage businesses; 3) pepsico europe, which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in europe and south africa; and 4) pepsico asia, middle east and africa (amea), which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in amea, excluding south africa. our four business units are comprised of six reportable segments (also referred to as divisions), as follows: flna, qfna, laf, pab, europe, and amea. see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and geographic areas. frito-lay north america either independently or in conjunction with third-party partners, flna makes, markets, sells and distributes branded snack foods. these foods include lay's potato chips, doritos tortilla chips, cheetos cheese flavored snacks, tostitos tortilla chips, branded dips, ruffles potato chips, fritos corn chips and santitas tortilla chips. flna's branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. in addition, flna's joint venture with strauss group makes, markets, sells and distributes sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. flna's net revenue was $ 13.6 billion , $ 13.3 billion and $ 12.6 billion in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and approximated 21% , 20% and 22% of our total net revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. quaker foods north america either independently or in conjunction with third-party partners, qfna makes, markets, sells and distributes cereals, rice, pasta, dairy and other branded products. qfna's products include quaker oatmeal, aunt jemima mixes and syrups, quaker chewy granola bars, quaker grits, cap'n crunch cereal, life cereal, quaker rice cakes, rice-a-roni side dishes, near east side dishes and pasta roni side dishes. these branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. qfna's net revenue was $ 2.6 billion in 2012 and $ 2.7 billion in both 2011 and 2010 and approximated 4% of our total net revenue in each of 2012, 2011 and 2010. latin america foods either independently or in conjunction with third-party partners, laf makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of snack food brands including marias gamesa, cheetos, doritos, ruffles, emperador, saladitas, elma chips, rosquinhas mabel, sabritas and tostitos, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks. these branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. laf's net revenue was $ 7.8 billion , 3 table of contents $ 7.2 billion and $ 6.3 billion in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and approximated 12% of our total net revenue in 2012 and 11% of our total net revenue in both 2011 and 2010. pepsico americas beverages either independently or in conjunction with third-party partners, pab makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, mountain dew, gatorade, diet pepsi, aquafina, 7up (outside the u.s.), diet mountain dew, tropicana pure premium, sierra mist and mirinda. pab also, either independently or in conjunction with third-party partners, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea and coffee products through joint ventures with unilever (under the lipton brand name) and starbucks. further, pab manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from dr pepper snapple group, inc. (dpsg), including dr pepper and crush, and certain juice brands licensed from dole food company, inc. pab operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities and sells branded finished goods directly to independent distributors and retailers. pab also sells concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized and independent bottlers, who in turn also sell our brands as finished goods to independent distributors and retailers in certain markets. pab's net revenue was $ 21.4 billion , $ 22.4 billion and $ 20.4 billion in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and approximated 33% , 34% and 35% of our total net revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our acquisitions of the pepsi bottling group, inc. (pbg) and pepsiamericas, inc. (pas) in 2010. europe either independently or in conjunction with third-party partners, europe makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading snack foods including lay's, walkers, doritos, cheetos and ruffles, as well as many quaker-branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. europe also, either independently or in conjunction with third-party partners, makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, pepsi max, 7up, diet pepsi and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. in certain markets, however, europe operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. europe also, either independently or in conjunction with third-party partners, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). in addition, europe makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading dairy products including domik v derevne, chudo and agusha. europe's net revenue was $ 13.4 billion , $ 13.6 billion and $ 9.6 billion in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and approximated 20% of our total net revenue in both 2012 and 2011 and 17% of our total net revenue in 2010. see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our acquisitions of wimm-bill-dann foods ojsc (wbd) in 2011 and pbg and pas in 2010. asia, middle east and africa either independently or in conjunction with third-party partners, amea makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading snack food brands including lay's, chipsy, kurkure, doritos, cheetos and smith's through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. further, either independently or in conjunction with third-party partners, amea makes, markets and sells many quaker-branded cereals and snacks. amea also makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including pepsi, mirinda, 7up, mountain dew, aquafina and tropicana. these branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. however, in certain markets, amea operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. amea also, either independently or in conjunction with third-party partners, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with unilever (under the lipton brand name). further, amea 4 table of contents licenses co-branded juice products to third-party partners through a strategic alliance with tingyi (cayman islands) holding corp. (tingyi) under the house of tropicana brand name. amea's net revenue was $ 6.7 billion , $ 7.4 billion and $ 6.3 billion in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and approximated 10% of our total net revenue in 2012 and 11% of our total net revenue in both 2011 and 2010. see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our transaction with tingyi in 2012. our distribution network our products are brought to market through direct-store-delivery (dsd), customer warehouse and distributor networks. the distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. these distribution systems are described under the heading our distribution network contained in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. ingredients and other supplies the principal ingredients we use in our food and beverage businesses are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (pet) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities for us due to their use in our facilities and in the trucks delivering our products. we employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages. many of these ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivatives. in addition, risk to our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. when prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our exposure to commodity costs. see also item 1a. risk factors our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. our brands we own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including agusha, aquafina, aunt jemima, cap'n crunch, cheetos, chester's, chipsy, chudo, cracker jack, diet mountain dew, diet pepsi, domik v derevne, doritos, duyvis, elma chips, emperador, frito-lay, fritos, fruktovy sad, frustyle, gatorade, g2, g series, grandma's, imunele, izze, kurkure, lay's, life, little house in the village, lubimy sad, manzanita sol, marias gamesa, matutano, mirinda, miss vickie's, mother's, mountain dew, m ller, mug, munchies, naked, near east, paso de los toros, pasta roni, pepsi, pepsi max, pepsi next, propel, quaker, quaker chewy, rice-a-roni, rold gold, rosquinhas mabel, ruffles, sabritas, saladitas, sakata, sandora, 7up and 7up free (outside the united states), santitas, sierra mist, simba, smartfood, smith's, snack a jacks, sobe, sobe lifewater, sobe v water, sonric's, stacy's, sunchips, tonus, tostitos, trop 50, tropicana, tropicana pure premium, tropicana twister, vesely molochnik, walkers and ya. we also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products in certain markets, including dole and ocean spray. joint ventures in which we participate either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as lipton, m ller, starbucks and sabra. trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. we have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. in addition, we license the use of our trademarks on merchandise that is sold at retail for the primary purpose of enhancing brand awareness. 5 table of contents we either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to some of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. some of these patents are licensed to others. seasonality our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. for instance, our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food and dairy sales are higher in the cooler months. weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. however, taken as a whole, seasonality does not have a material impact on our financial results. our customers our primary customers include wholesale distributors, foodservice distributors, grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores and authorized independent bottlers. we normally grant our independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. these arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality. in 2012, sales to wal-mart stores, inc. (wal-mart), including sam's club (sam's), represented approximately 11% of our total net revenue. our top five retail customers represented approximately 30% of our 2012 north american (united states and canada) net revenue, with wal-mart (including sam's) representing approximately 17%. these percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. see our customers contained in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our independent bottlers. see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our acquisitions of pbg and pas in 2010. our competition our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. our beverage, snack and food brands compete against global, regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. in many countries in which we do business, the coca-cola company is our primary beverage competitor. other food and beverage competitors include, but are not limited to, nestl s.a., danone, dpsg, kellogg company, general mills, inc. and mondel z international, inc. in many markets, we compete against numerous regional and local companies. many of our snack and food brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack and food industry worldwide. however, the coca-cola company has significant carbonated soft drink (csd) share advantage in many markets outside the united states. our beverage, snack and food brands compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, the introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging, pricing, increased efficiency in production techniques and brand and trademark development and protection. we believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allows us to compete effectively. 6 table of contents (1) the categories and category share information in the charts above are through december 2012 based on data provided and verified by symphonyiri group, inc. the above charts include data from most major retail chains (including wal-mart) but exclude data from certain customers that do not report to this service. the sample of retailers submitting data to symphonyiri group was expanded in 2012; therefore, data shown in the above chart is not comparable to data shown in this chart in our 2011 annual report on form 10-k . (2) does not sum due to rounding. (3) data on kraft includes percent retail sales for kraft foods, inc. through september 2012 and mondel z international, inc. and kraft foods group, inc. from october 2012 through december 2012. research and development we engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to invest to accelerate growth in these activities and to drive innovation globally. these activities principally involve the development of new products, improvement in the quality of existing products, improvement and modernization of production processes, the development and implementation of new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and proposed product lines and research and development efforts focused on identification of opportunities to transform and grow our product portfolio in the short and long term. our research platforms are shared across specializations, countries and regions in order to generate innovation. in 2012, we continued to expand our portfolio of products made with nutritious ingredients, increasing the amount of whole grains, fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds and low-fat dairy in certain of our products, and we continued to take steps to reduce the average amount of sodium, saturated fat and added sugar per serving in certain of our products. we also invested in agricultural development and the development and implementation of new technologies to both enhance the quality and value of our current and future product lines and to minimize our impact on the environment. we made investments to conserve energy and raw materials, and to reduce waste in our facilities, and to improve our packaging process to continue to reduce total packaging volume, recycle containers, use renewable resources and remove environmentally sensitive materials. consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. research and development costs were $ 552 million in 2012, $525 million in 2011 and $488 million in 2010 and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses. regulatory environment and environmental compliance the conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, advertising, marketing, labeling, safety and health practices, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as 7 table of contents well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the united states in markets in which our products are made, manufactured or sold. it is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. in the united states, we are required to comply with a variety of laws and regulations, including but not limited to: the food, drug and cosmetic act; the food safety modernization act; the occupational safety and health act; the clean air act; the clean water act; the resource conservation and recovery act; the federal motor carrier safety act; the lanham act; various federal and state laws governing competition and trade practices; various federal and state laws and regulations governing equal employment opportunity and our employment relationships, including the equal employment opportunity act and the national labor relations act; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations; and laws regulating sale of certain of our products in schools. in our business dealings, we are also required to comply with the foreign corrupt practices act. in addition, we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including state consumer protection laws. for example, in california, proposition 65 requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the state of california as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. the state of california continues to evaluate various components and, consequently, food and beverage producers who sell products in california, including pepsico, may be required to provide warning labels on their products. see also item 1a. risk factors changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. outside the united states, we are subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws and regulations. in addition, in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. we rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business. legislation has been introduced in certain jurisdictions in which we operate that would impose special taxes or other limitations on certain products we sell. for example, certain federal, state and local governments in the united states, and in certain other countries in which we operate, have either imposed or are considering the imposition of taxes and other limitations on the sale of certain of our products, including non-diet and diet soft drinks, fruit drinks, teas, energy drinks and flavored waters. in the united states, federal and state legislatures are also debating proposals to require labeling of genetically modified organisms (gmos) and to restrict the use of supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits to purchase certain beverages and foods. in addition, legislation has been enacted in certain u.s. states and in certain other countries in which our products are sold that requires collection and recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers unless a deposit or other fee is charged. it is possible that similar or more restrictive legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. the cost of compliance with u.s. and foreign laws does not have a material financial impact on our results of operations. we are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the united states and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater and air emissions. in the united states, our facilities must comply with the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the resource conservation and recovery act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, storage, release and disposal of wastes generated on-site and sent to third-party owned and operated off-site licensed facilities. we are committed to meeting all applicable environmental compliance requirements and have internal programs in place to enhance our global environmental health and safety management. we and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in connection with 8 table of contents certain historical activities and contractual obligations of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. while these environmental and indemnification obligations cannot be predicted with certainty, environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. see also item 1a. risk factors changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the recently enacted iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (tra) requires disclosure of certain activities relating to iran by pepsico or its affiliates that occurred during the twelve month period covered by this report. one of our foreign subsidiaries had historically maintained a small office in iran, which provided sales support to independent bottlers in iran in connection with in-country sales of foreign-owned beverage brands, and which was not in contravention of any applicable u.s. sanctions laws. starting in early 2012, our foreign subsidiary began to take steps to close this office in iran, including the termination of all three of its employees, and the office has ceased all commercial activity since enactment of the tra. prior to the enactment of the tra, this foreign subsidiary paid local iranian governmental authorities taxes associated with the office and with wind-down activities. the office also maintained local bank accounts with two banks identified on the list of specially designated nationals (sdn) maintained by the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control (ofac). the aggregate amount of transactions or dealings the business office had with the iranian government and banks on the sdn list in 2012 was approximately $100,000, and no gross revenue or net profit was attributable to such activity. our foreign subsidiary is currently in the process of completing the wind-down of the office in iran pursuant to a general license from ofac and intends to seek any further specific licenses as may be necessary in order to complete the wind-down of this office. employees as of december 29, 2012, we employed approximately 278,000 people worldwide, including approximately 106,000 people within the united states. our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. we or our subsidiaries are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. we expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. we believe that relations with our employees are generally good. available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are also available free of charge on our internet site at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. 9 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively. we are a global food and beverage company operating in highly competitive categories and rely on continued demand for our products. to generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. our success depends on: our ability to anticipate and respond to shifts in consumer trends, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are increasingly concerned with health and wellness; our product quality; our ability to extend our portfolio of convenient foods in growing markets; our ability to develop new products that are responsive to consumer preferences, including our fun-for-you , good-for-you and better-for-you products; and our ability to respond to competitive product and pricing pressures. for example, our growth rate may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain or grow our current share of the liquid refreshment beverage market in north america, or our current share of the snack market globally, or if demand for our products does not grow in emerging and developing markets. in general, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population; consumer concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients such as sodium, sugar or other product ingredients or attributes; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns; changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; negative publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory action or litigation against us or other companies in our industry; a downturn in economic conditions; or taxes that would increase the cost of our products to consumers. any of these changes may reduce consumers' willingness to purchase our products. see also changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. , unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. and any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products and improving the quality of existing products, and the effectiveness of our product packaging, advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including our ability to successfully adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, such as through use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. although we devote significant resources to the actions mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. in addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs. 10 table of contents changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, advertising, marketing, labeling, health and safety practices, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the united states in markets in which our products are made, manufactured or sold, including in emerging and developing markets where legal and regulatory systems may be less developed. these laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. such changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to product labeling, advertising and marketing practices; laws regarding the import of ingredients used in our products; laws regarding the import or export of our products; laws and programs aimed at reducing ingredients present in certain of our products, including sodium, saturated fat and added sugar; regulatory actions targeting the snack food or beverage industries such as restrictions on the sale of snack and beverage products in publicly regulated venues or restrictions on the use of the supplemental nutrition assistance program to purchase certain snacks or beverages; increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving, product claims and concerns regarding the effects on health of ingredients in, or attributes of, certain of our products, including without limitation those found in energy drinks; state consumer protection laws; taxation requirements, including taxes that would increase the cost of our products to consumers; competition laws; employment laws; privacy laws; laws regulating the price we may charge for our products; laws regulating access to and use of water or utilities; and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where we operate may also impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. studies are underway by third parties to assess the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients present in some of our products, including sugar, artificial sweeteners, as well as substances such as acrylamide that are naturally formed in a wide variety of foods when they are cooked (whether commercially or at home), including french fries, potato chips, cereal, bread and coffee. certain of these studies of acrylamide found that it is probable that acrylamide causes cancer in laboratory animals when consumed in extraordinary amounts. if consumer concerns about the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients present in some of our products, including sugar, artificial sweeteners, or acrylamide increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, or for any other reason, whether or not valid, demand for our products could decline and we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are also subject to proposition 65 in california, a law which requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. if we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees or suppliers 11 table of contents could take actions that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations. violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. we cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. see also item 1. business-regulatory environment and environmental compliance. and our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold. our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. the food, snack and beverage industries in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. we compete with other large companies in each of the food, snack and beverage categories, including nestl s.a., danone, mondel z international, kellogg company, general mills and dpsg. in many countries where we do business, including the united states, our primary beverage competitor is the coca-cola company. we compete on the basis of brand recognition, taste, price, quality, product variety, distribution, marketing and promotional activity, convenience, service and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. if we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or gross margins in the global market or in various local markets. this may have a material adverse impact on our revenues and profit margins. see also unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold. our operations outside of the united states, particularly in russia, mexico, canada and the united kingdom, contribute significantly to our revenue and profitability, and we believe that our emerging and developing markets, particularly china, india, brazil and the africa and middle east regions, present important future growth opportunities for us. however, there can be no assurance that our existing products, variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, market or sell will be accepted or successful in any particular emerging or developing market, due to local or global competition, product price, cultural differences or otherwise. if we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging and developing markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect as a result of our investments, particularly in russia, as a result of economic and political conditions, increased competition, reduced demand for our products, an inability to acquire or form strategic business alliances or to make necessary infrastructure investments or for any other reason, our financial performance could be adversely affected. unstable economic or political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold, including in europe, venezuela, mexico, the middle east and egypt, could also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. factors that could adversely affect our business results in these markets include: 12 table of contents foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets; regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, which, from time to time, result in significant cash balances in foreign countries such as venezuela, and on the repatriation of funds; currency hyperinflation, devaluation or fluctuation, such as the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems; and increased costs of business due to compliance with complex foreign and united states laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, and adverse consequences, such as the assessment of fines or penalties, for failing to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, disruption in these markets due to political instability or civil unrest could result in a decline in consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products. see also item 1. business-regulatory environment and environmental compliance. , demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively. , changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. , disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. and failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or manage divestitures or refranchising, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations . unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. many of the countries in which we operate, including the united states and several of the members of the european union, have experienced and continue to experience unfavorable economic conditions. our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by these unfavorable economic conditions, including: adverse changes in interest rates, tax laws or tax rates; volatile commodity markets and inflation; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace due to legislation or other economic conditions such as the european sovereign debt crisis, which may potentially impair our ability to access the capital markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all; the effects of government initiatives to manage economic conditions; reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow-down in the general global economy or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other economy products, or to less profitable channels; impairment of assets; or a decrease in the fair value of pension or post-retirement assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension or post-retirement plans. in addition, we cannot predict how current or worsening economic conditions will affect our critical customers, suppliers and distributors and any negative impact on our critical customers, suppliers or distributors may also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. in addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including u.s. and non-u.s. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks and other financial institutions, may be exposed to a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a major financial institution may limit the availability of credit or willingness of financial institutions to extend credit on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all or, with respect to financial institutions who are parties to our financing arrangements, leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or unhedged against certain currencies or price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials which could have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. 13 table of contents our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. we and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business. the principal ingredients we use include apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils and wheat. our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (pet) and polypropylene resin used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. fuel and natural gas are also important commodities for us due to their use in our facilities and in the trucks delivering our products. some of these raw materials and supplies are sourced internationally and some are available from a limited number of suppliers or are in shortest supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. we are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy, including fuel. the raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental incentives and controls. we purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. if commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating results. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of certain raw materials and energy, including fuel. certain of these derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. see also changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. , climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. and market risks contained in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity plan or global operating model could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are implementing a strategic plan that we believe will position our business for future success and growth, to allow us to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food, snack and beverage industries. in order to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. in addition, it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plan. our future success and earnings growth depends in part on our ability to reduce costs and improve efficiencies. if we are unable to successfully implement our productivity plan or fail to implement it as timely as we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, we have launched a global operating model to improve efficiency, decision making, innovation and brand management across the global pepsico organization. if we are unable to implement this model effectively, it may have a negative impact on our ability to deliver sustained or breakthrough innovation or to otherwise compete effectively. disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability, and that of our suppliers, third-party business partners, including our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint venture partners, independent distributors and retailers, to make, manufacture, distribute and sell products is critical to our success. damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or transportation 14 table of contents and distribution capabilities due to any of the following could impair our ability to make, manufacture, transport, distribute or sell our products: adverse weather conditions or natural disaster, such as a hurricane, earthquake or flooding; government action; fire; terrorism; the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; pandemic; industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; strikes and other labor disputes; or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and business partners. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling or contamination, even if untrue, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. if any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, causes injury or is mislabeled, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability. a widespread product recall or a significant product liability issue could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. in addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, without limitation, anti-corruption laws and competition laws. in the event that our employees, bottlers or agents engage in improper activities abroad, we may be subject to enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences which may cause us to suffer damage to our reputation in the united states and abroad. our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities; the failure to achieve our goals with respect to sodium, saturated fat and added sugar reduction or the development of our global nutrition business; health concerns about our products or particular ingredients in our products; our research and development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use and waste management; the practices of our bottlers with respect to any of the foregoing; or our responses to any of the foregoing. in addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and demand for water continues to increase. our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use. failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. furthermore, the rising popularity of social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination, and, as a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments on such sites may also generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation. damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. see also changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or manage divestitures or refranchisings, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we regularly evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and refranchisings. potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things, our ability to realize the full extent of the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the completion of an acquisition, divestiture 15 table of contents or refranchising, or the formation of a joint venture, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with an acquisition, joint venture, divestiture or refranchising; and diversion of management's attention from base strategies and objectives. with respect to acquisitions, the following also pose potential risks: our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the manufacturing, distribution, sales and administrative support activities and information technology systems between our company and the acquired company and successfully operating in new categories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of the acquisitions. with respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. in addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the united states increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the united states, including fluctuations in exchange rates and compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, and laws and regulations outside the united states. with respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we may not be able to complete such transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all. in addition, as divestitures and refranchisings may reduce our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain may adversely impact sales or business performance. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, or if a divestiture or refranchising is not successfully completed or managed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. if we are unable to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business. our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. we compete to hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions, including our chief executive officer, or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. in addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. trade consolidation or the loss of any key customer could adversely affect our financial performance. we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including wal-mart, as well as other retailers, to effectively compete. the loss of any of our key customers, including wal-mart, could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. in addition, our industry has been affected by increasing concentration of retail ownership, particularly in the united states and europe, which may impact our ability to compete as such retailers may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. failure to appropriately respond to any such actions or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers 16 table of contents could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance. our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings. our objective is to maintain credit ratings that provide us with ready access to global capital and credit markets. any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us, or at all. in addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade. see also our liquidity and capital resources contained in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. if we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively, our business could suffer. we depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations, to interface with our customers, to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements, and for digital marketing activities and electronic communication among our locations around the world and between our personnel and the personnel of our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint ventures, suppliers or other third-party partners. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property, or the loss of sensitive or confidential data through security breach or otherwise. we have embarked on multi-year business transformation initiatives to migrate certain of our financial processing systems to enterprise-wide systems solutions. there can be no certainty that these initiatives will deliver the expected benefits. the failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. in addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers that we outsource these functions to do not perform or do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach or otherwise, litigation or remediation costs and could have a negative impact on employee morale. our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting confidential information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets, litigation, remediation costs, damage to our reputation and 17 table of contents loss of revenue resulting from unauthorized use of confidential information or failure to retain or attract customers following such an event. fluctuations in exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the united states are translated into u.s. dollars. our operations outside of the u.s. generate a significant portion of our net revenue. fluctuations in exchange rates may therefore adversely impact our business results or financial condition. see also market risks contained in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. there is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, potatoes and various fruits. we may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. the increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulation is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. see also changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. , our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies. and disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a portion of our workforce belongs to unions. failure to successfully renew collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages could cause our business to suffer. many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. these agreements expire on various dates. strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. the terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. 18 table of contents our intellectual property rights could be infringed or challenged and reduce the value of our products and brands and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets which are important to our business and relate to some of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see also changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. potential liabilities and costs from litigation or legal proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including but not limited to litigation related to our marketing or commercial practices, product labels and environmental and insurance matters. since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that management's assessment of the materiality of these matters, including the reserves taken in connection therewith, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or proceedings. in the event that management's assessment of materiality on current claims and proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, results of operations or cash flows. see also any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 116 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations our business risks.