quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, other matters immediately above on this page, and derivative financial instruments in note 1 - significant accounting policies of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 57 this form 10-k. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- page 48risk factors 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56risk factors 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56risk factors 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption quantitative and qualitative disclosure of market risk on page 73 and 74, and under the caption derivative financial instruments in note 1 significant accounting policies on page 86 of this form 10-k. 74quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption quantitative and qualitative disclosure of market risk on page 50, and under the caption derivative financial instruments in note 1 significant accounting policies on page 60 of this form 10-k.risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. while we attempt to identify, manage and mitigate risks to our business to the extent practical under the circumstances, some level of risk and uncertainty will always be present. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. reduced funding for defense procurement and research and development programs could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our revenues and profitability. we and other u.s. defense contractors have benefited from an upward trend in overall defense spending in the last few years. the defense investment budget includes funds for weapons procurement and research and development. the future years defense plan submitted with the president budget request for fiscal year 2007 projects a strong commitment to research and development of transformational capabilities across the military services, while reducing quantities of near-term systems compared to previous projections. although the ultimate size of future defense budgets remains uncertain, current indications are that the total defense budget and the investment budget as a component of overall defense spending will increase over the next few years. however, dod programs in which we participate, or in which we may seek to participate in the future, must compete with other programs for consideration during our nation budget formulation and appropriation processes. budget decisions made in this environment may have long-term consequences for our size and structure and that of the defense industry. while we believe that our programs are a high priority for national defense, there remains the possibility that one or more of our programs will be reduced, extended, or terminated. reductions in our existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could adversely affect our ability to grow our revenues and profitability. military transformation and planning may affect future procurement priorities and existing programs. the dod is committed to a transformation that will achieve and maintain advantages through changes in operational concepts, organizational structure and technologies that significantly improve warfighting capabilities. this defense transformation is evidenced by a trend toward smaller, more capable, interoperable and technologically advanced forces. to achieve these capabilities, a change in acquisition is underway toward early deployment of initial program capabilities followed by subsequent incremental improvements, cooperative international development programs and a demonstrated willingness to explore new forms of development, acquisition and support. along with these trends, new system procurements are being evaluated for the degree to which they support the concept of jointness and interoperability among the services. 24 table of contents we cannot predict whether potential changes in priorities due to defense transformation will afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on or replacement programs. therefore, it is difficult to accurately assess the impact on our business going forward until more is known, including whether we would have to close existing manufacturing facilities or incur expenses beyond those that would be reimbursed if one or more of our existing contracts were terminated for convenience due to lack of funding. see management discussion and analysis industry considerations on pages 43 through 49 of this report. we are continuing to invest in business opportunities where we can use our customer knowledge, technical strength and systems integration capabilities to win new business. whether we are successful in continuing to grow revenues and profits will depend, in large measure, on whether we are able to deliver the best value solutions for our customer. our existing u.s. government contracts are subject to continued appropriations by congress and may be terminated if future funding is not made available. we rely heavily upon sales to the u.s. government including both dod and non-dod agencies, obtaining 85% of our revenues from those customers in 2005. future sales under our existing u.s. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to termination if appropriations for subsequent periods become unavailable. we provide a wide range of defense, homeland security and information technology products and services to the u.s. government. while we believe that this diversity makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term impact on us, termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. in addition, termination of large programs or multiple contracts affecting a particular business site could require us to evaluate the continued viability of operating that site. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. a violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. in some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. for example, the u.s. government may terminate any of our government contracts and, in general, subcontracts, at their convenience, as well as for default based on performance. upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process 25 table of contents and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. upon termination for convenience of a cost reimbursement contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. such allowable costs would include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. the amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our services as a subcontractor. in addition, our u.s. government contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. the u.s. government generally has the right to not exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period if the agency is not satisfied with our performance on the contract. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the u.s. government. u.s. government agencies, including the defense contract audit agency and the department of labor, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. the u.s. government also may review the adequacy of, and a contractor compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. developing new technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. our business consists of designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. we are often tasked to develop or integrate new technologies that may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are explosive and inherently dangerous. failures of launch vehicles, spacecraft and satellites, missile systems, command and control systems, software applications, air-traffic control systems, train-control systems, homeland security applications, nuclear facilities, and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. we may face liabilities related to the maintenance or servicing of aircraft or other platforms or for training services we supply in the course of our business. in addition, from time-to-time, we have employees deployed on-site at active military installations or locations, or in support of military operations in hostile locations. although indemnification by the u.s. government may be available in some instances for our defense businesses, this is not always the case. in some 26 table of contents instances where the u.s. government could provide indemnification under applicable law, it elects not to do so. in addition, u.s. government indemnification may not be available to cover potential claims or liabilities resulting from a failure of technologies developed and deployed for homeland security purposes. while we maintain insurance for some business risks, it is not possible to obtain coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. we generally seek indemnification where we believe that the u.s. government is permitted to extend indemnification under applicable law and generally seek limitation of potential liabilities related to the sale and use of our homeland security products and services through qualification by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002. where we are unable to secure indemnification or qualification under the safety act, we may nevertheless elect to provide the product or service. finally, some technologies, particularly those related to homeland security, may raise potential liabilities related to privacy issues for which neither indemnification nor safety act coverage is available. substantial claims resulting from an accident or other incident in excess of any u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available) could harm our financial condition and operating results. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. our earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs. at december 31, 2005, our backlog included both cost reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. cost reimbursable contracts generally have lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and developmental contracts are generally cost reimbursable contracts. our earnings and margins may vary materially depending on the types of long-term government contracts undertaken, the nature of the products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost reimbursable contracts, subject to a contract-ceiling amount in certain cases, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. the failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements can result in reduced fees and may affect our financial performance for the affected period. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. cost over-runs also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. 27 table of contents if our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our prime contract performance and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. there is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, or our hiring of personnel of a subcontractor. a failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. a default termination could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, a delay in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers needs and may have an adverse effect upon our profitability. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs. changes in our estimates could affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impacts of efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. estimates of award and incentive fees are also used in estimating revenue and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. for additional information on accounting policies and internal controls we have in place for recognizing sales and profits, see our discussion under management discussion and analysis critical accounting policies contract accounting/revenue recognition on pages 49 through 52 and controls and procedures on page 74, and note 1 significant accounting policies on pages 84 through 92 of this form 10-k. new accounting standards could result in changes to our methods of quantifying and recording accounting transactions, and could affect our financial results and financial position. changes to generally accepted accounting principles in the united states (gaap) arise from new and revised standards, interpretations and other guidance issued by the financial 28 table of contents accounting standards board, the sec, and others. the effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. such changes could result in unanticipated effects on our results of operations, financial position and other financial measures. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings in future periods. our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense we record for our employee benefit plans. this is particularly true with expense for our pension plans. gaap requires that we calculate expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations are based on assumptions that we make relating to financial market and other economic conditions. changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in the assumptions we use. the key year-end assumptions used to estimate pension expense for the following year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the rate of increase in future compensation levels. for a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see management discussion and analysis critical accounting policies postretirement benefit plans on pages 52 through 54 of this form 10-k. international sales and suppliers may pose potentially greater risks. our international business may pose greater risks than our domestic business due to the greater potential for changes in foreign economic and political environments. in return, however, these greater risks are often accompanied by the potential to earn higher profits than from our domestic business. our international business is also highly sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets. sales of military products are affected by defense budgets (both in the u.s. and abroad) and u.s. foreign policy. sales of our products and services internationally are subject to local government regulations and procurement policies and practices (including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings), as well as to varying currency, political and economic risks. our contracts, however, generally are denominated in u.s. dollars. we also frequently team with international subcontractors and suppliers, and are exposed to similar risks. in international sales, we face substantial competition from both domestic manufacturers and foreign manufacturers, whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for their commercial products. some international customers require contractors to comply with industrial cooperation regulations and enter into industrial participation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements. offset agreements may require in-country purchases, manufacturing and financial support projects as a condition to obtaining orders or other arrangements. offset agreements generally extend over several years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with offset requirements. see contractual commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements in management discussion and analysis on page 71 of this form 10-k. 29 table of contents if we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other extraordinary transactions successfully, our financial results, business and future prospects could be harmed. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets and enter into agreements regarding possible investments, acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures. as part of our business strategy, we seek to identify acquisition opportunities to expand or complement our existing products and services, or customer base, at attractive valuations. we often compete with others for the same opportunities. to be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate transaction terms, complete and close complex transactions and manage post-closing issues ( e.g ., integrate acquired companies and employees, realize anticipated operating synergies and improve margins) efficiently and effectively. at the same time, extraordinary transactions require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. if we are not successful in identifying and closing extraordinary transactions, we may not be able to maintain our competitive leadership position or may be required to expend additional resources to develop capabilities internally in certain segments. in evaluating transactions, we are required to make valuation assumptions and exercise judgment regarding business opportunities and potential liabilities. our assumptions or judgment may prove to be inaccurate. our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the material issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost of a particular transaction. future acquisitions might require that we issue stock or incur indebtedness. this could dilute returns to existing stockholders, or adversely affect our credit rating or future financial performance, if our integration plans are not successful. we also may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation and other liabilities. while we believe that we have established appropriate procedures and processes to mitigate many of these risks, there is no assurance that our integration efforts and business acquisition strategy will be successful. business disruptions could seriously affect our future revenue and financial condition or increase our costs and expenses. our business may be impacted by disruptions including, but not limited to, threats to physical security, information technology attacks or failures, damaging weather or other acts of nature and pandemics or other public health crises. such disruptions could affect our internal operations or services provided to customers, and could impact our revenue, increase our expenses or adversely affect our reputation or our stock price. unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future earnings. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. we are involved in environmental responses at some of our facilities and former facilities, and at third-party sites not owned by us where we have been designated a potentially responsible party by the epa or by a state agency. 30 table of contents we manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the government. at such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs have historically been the responsibility of the government and we relied (and continue to rely with respect to past practices) upon government funding to pay such costs. while the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance are typically borne by either the government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. most of the laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. if we were convicted of a violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, our facility or facilities involved in the violation would be placed by epa on the excluded parties list maintained by the general services administration. the listing would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation had been cured. listed facilities cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded to us during any period of listing by the epa. we have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various state and federal statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. among the variables management must assess in evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites generally are changing cost estimates, continually evolving governmental environmental standards and cost allowability issues. for information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent estimable, see environmental matters in management discussion and analysis on pages 54 through 55 and note 15-legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies on pages 113 through 116 of this form 10-k. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. our business operates in many locations under government jurisdictions that impose income taxes. changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain revenues or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, audits by income tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our income tax expense. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies (including environmental remediation costs) that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by gaap in the u.s., we estimate material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. for a description of our current legal proceedings, see item 3 legal proceedings 31 table of contents on pages 34 through 35 and note 15 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies on pages 113 through 116 of this form 10-k. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. our business has a continuing need to attract large numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support the growth of the enterprise and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. historically, where employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. this does not assure, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to negotiate renewals of our existing collective bargaining agreements when they expire. if we were unsuccessful in those efforts, there is the potential that we could incur unanticipated delays or expenses in the programs affected by any resulting work stoppages. our forward-looking statements and projections may prove to be inaccurate. our actual financial results likely will be different from those projected due to the inherent nature of projections and may be better or worse than projected. given these uncertainties, you should not rely on forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k speak only as of the date of this form 10-k. we expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this form 10-k to reflect the occurrence of subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in our expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. the forward-looking statements in this form 10-k are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the federal securities laws. in addition, general economic conditions and trends, including interest rates, government budgets and inflation, can and do affect our businesses. for a discussion identifying additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the preceding discussion of risk factors on pages 24 through 32, government contracts and regulation on page 22, industry considerations in management discussion and analysis on pages 43 through 49, note 1 significant accounting policies on pages 84 through 92, and critical accounting policies in management discussion and analysis on pages 49 through 55 of this form 10-k. other factors, in addition to those described, may affect our forward-looking statements or actual results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption quantitative and qualitative disclosure of market risk on page 72, and under the caption derivative financial instruments in note 1 significant accounting policies on page 88 of this form 10-k. 75 table of contentsrisk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. while we attempt to identify, manage and mitigate risks to our business to the extent practical under the circumstances, some level of risk and uncertainty will always be present. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. reduced funding for defense procurement and research and development programs could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our sales and profitability. we and other u.s. defense contractors have benefited from an upward trend in overall defense spending in the last few years. the defense investment budget includes funds for weapons procurement and research and development. the future years defense plan submitted with the president budget request for fiscal year 2008 reflects the continued commitment to modernize the armed forces while prosecuting the war on terrorism. the emphasis on modernization is reflected in proposed sustained growth in the investment accounts. although the ultimate size of future defense budgets remains uncertain, current indications are that the total defense budget and the investment budget as a component of overall defense spending will increase over the next few years. dod programs in which we participate, or in which we may seek to participate in the future, must compete with other programs for consideration during our nation budget formulation and appropriation processes. budget decisions made in this environment may have long-term consequences for our size and structure and that of the defense industry. while we believe that our programs are a high priority for national defense, there remains the possibility that one or more of our programs will be reduced, extended, or terminated. reductions in our existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could adversely affect our ability to grow our sales and profitability. military transformation and planning may affect future procurement priorities and existing programs. the dod is committed to a transformation that will achieve and maintain advantages through changes in operational concepts, organizational structure and technologies that significantly improve warfighting capabilities. this defense transformation is evidenced by a trend toward smaller, more capable, interoperable and technologically advanced forces. to achieve these capabilities, a change in acquisition strategy is underway with the dod moving toward early deployment of initial program capabilities followed by subsequent incremental improvements, cooperative international development programs and a demonstrated willingness to explore new forms of development, acquisition and support. along with these trends, new system procurements are being evaluated for the degree to which they support the concept of jointness and interoperability among the services. we cannot predict whether potential changes in priorities due to defense transformation will afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on or replacement programs. therefore, it is difficult to accurately assess the impact on our business going forward until more is known, including whether we would have to close existing manufacturing facilities or incur expenses beyond those that would be reimbursed if one or more of our existing contracts were terminated for convenience due to lack of funding. see management discussion and analysis industry considerations on pages 33 through 36 of this report. 18 table of contents we are continuing to invest in business opportunities where we can use our customer knowledge, technical strength and systems integration capabilities to win new business. whether we are successful in continuing to grow sales and profits will depend, in large measure, on whether we are able to deliver the best value solutions for our customer. our existing u.s. government contracts are subject to continued appropriations by congress and may be terminated if future funding is not made available. we rely heavily upon sales to the u.s. government including both dod and non-dod agencies, obtaining 84% of our sales from u.s. government customers in 2006. future sales from orders placed under our existing u.s. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to termination if appropriations for subsequent periods become unavailable. we provide a wide range of defense, homeland security and information technology products and services to the u.s. government. while we believe that this diversity makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term impact on us, termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. in addition, termination of large programs or multiple contracts affecting a particular business site could require us to evaluate the continued viability of operating that site. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. a violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. in some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. for example, the u.s. government may terminate any of our government contracts and, in general, subcontracts, at its convenience, as well as for default based on performance. upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. upon termination for convenience of a cost reimbursement contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. such allowable costs would include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. the amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our services as a subcontractor. in addition, our u.s. government contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. the u.s. government generally has the right to not exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period if the agency is not satisfied with our performance on the contract. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the u.s. government. u.s. government agencies, including the defense contract audit agency and various agency inspectors general, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. the u.s. government also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, accounting and information systems. any costs found to be misclassified may be nonreimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed may be subject to repayment. if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. 19 table of contents developing and implementing new technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties and may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. our business consists of designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. we are often tasked to develop or integrate new technologies that may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are explosive or otherwise inherently dangerous. failures of spacecraft and satellites, missile systems, command and control systems, software applications, intelligence systems, air-traffic control systems, train-control systems, homeland security applications, nuclear facilities, aircraft or other products or systems have the potential to cause extensive loss of life and property damage. we may face liabilities related to the maintenance or servicing of aircraft or other platforms or for training services we supply in the course of our business. from time-to-time, we have employees deployed in developing countries, at military installations or accompanying armed forces in the field. although indemnification by the u.s. government may be available in some instances for the risks described, this is not always the case. in some instances where the u.s. government could provide indemnification under applicable law, it elects not to do so. while we maintain insurance for some business risks, it is not possible to obtain coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. we generally seek limitation of potential liabilities related to the sale and use of our homeland security products and services through qualification by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002. where we are unable to secure indemnification or qualification under the safety act or choose not to do so, we may nevertheless elect to provide the product or service when we think risks are manageable. substantial claims resulting from an accident, other incident or liability arising from our products and services in excess of any u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or was not obtained) could harm our financial condition and operating results. any accident, incident or liability, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. our earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs. at december 31, 2006, our backlog included both cost reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. cost reimbursable contracts generally have lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and developmental contracts are generally cost reimbursable contracts. our earnings and margins may vary materially depending on the types of long-term government contracts undertaken, the nature of the products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost reimbursable contracts, subject to a contract-ceiling amount in certain cases, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. the failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements can result in reduced fees and may affect our financial performance for the affected period. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. cost over-runs also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. if our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our prime contract performance and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. there is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, the workshare provided to the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, or our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa. a failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may 20 table of contents materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. a default termination could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, a delay in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers needs and may have an adverse effect upon our profitability. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs. changes in our estimates could affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract sales and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total sales and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impacts of efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. estimates of award and incentive fees are also used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. for additional information on accounting policies and internal controls we have in place for recognizing sales and profits, see our discussion under management discussion and analysis critical accounting policies contract accounting/revenue recognition on pages 37 through 38 and controls and procedures on page 55, and note 1 significant accounting policies on pages 63 through 67 of this form 10-k. new accounting standards could result in changes to our methods of quantifying and recording accounting transactions, and could affect our financial results and financial position. changes to generally accepted accounting principles in the united states (gaap) arise from new and revised standards, interpretations and other guidance issued by the financial accounting standards board, the sec, and others. in addition, the u.s. government may issue new or revised cost accounting standards or cost principles. the effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. such changes could result in unanticipated effects on our results of operations, financial position and other financial measures. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings in future periods. our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense we record for our employee benefit plans. this is particularly true with expense for our pension plans. gaap requires that we calculate expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations are based on assumptions that we make relating to financial market and other economic conditions. changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in the assumptions we use. the key year-end assumptions used to estimate pension expense for the following year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the rate of increase in future compensation levels. our pension expense can also be affected by legislation and other government regulatory actions. for a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see management discussion and analysis critical accounting policies postretirement benefit plans on pages 38 through 40 of this form 10-k. international sales and suppliers may pose potentially greater risks. our international business may pose greater risks than our domestic business due to the greater potential for changes in foreign economic and political environments. in return, these greater risks are often accompanied by the potential to earn higher profits than from our domestic business. our international business is also highly sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets. sales of military products are affected by defense budgets (both in the u.s. and abroad) and u.s. foreign policy. sales of our products and services internationally are subject to u.s. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices including regulations relating to import-export control. violations of export control rules could result 21 table of contents in suspension of our ability to export items from one or more business units or the entire corporation. depending on the scope of the suspension, this could have a material effect on our ability to perform certain international contracts. there are also u.s. and international regulations relating to investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as varying currency, political and economic risks. our contracts, however, generally are denominated in u.s. dollars. we also frequently team with international subcontractors and suppliers, and are exposed to similar risks. in international sales, we face substantial competition from both domestic manufacturers and foreign manufacturers, whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for their products. some international customers require contractors to comply with industrial cooperation regulations and enter into industrial participation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements. offset agreements may require in-country purchases, manufacturing and financial support projects as a condition to obtaining orders or other arrangements. offset agreements generally extend over several years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with offset requirements. see contractual commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements in management discussion and analysis on page 53 of this form 10-k. as the u.s. government expands its role in nation-building, peacekeeping and operations support in countries experiencing internal warfare or acts of terrorism, our customers may ask us to perform services in troubled and dangerous areas of the world where we are unfamiliar with the local infrastructure. our employees may be exposed to threats to personal safety and we may be subject to criticism domestically or internationally by individuals or countries that do not agree with u.s. initiatives in these areas. if we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other extraordinary transactions successfully, our financial results, business and future prospects could be harmed. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets and enter into agreements regarding possible investments, acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures. as part of our business strategy, we seek to identify acquisition opportunities that will expand or complement our existing products and services, or customer base, at attractive valuations. we often compete with others for the same opportunities. to be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate transaction terms, complete and close complex transactions and manage post-closing matters ( e.g ., integrate acquired companies and employees, realize anticipated operating synergies and improve margins) efficiently and effectively. extraordinary transactions require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. if we are not successful in identifying and closing extraordinary transactions, we may not be able to maintain a competitive leadership position or may be required to expend additional resources to develop capabilities internally in certain segments. in evaluating transactions, we are required to make valuation assumptions and exercise judgment regarding business opportunities and potential liabilities. our assumptions or judgment may prove to be inaccurate. our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the material issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential loss contingencies of a particular transaction. future acquisitions might require that we issue stock or incur indebtedness. this could dilute returns to existing stockholders, or adversely affect our credit rating or future financial performance. we also may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation and other liabilities. while we believe that we have established appropriate procedures and processes to mitigate many of these risks, there is no assurance that our integration efforts and business acquisition strategy will be successful. divestitures may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, such as through guarantees or other financial arrangements, for a period of time following the transaction. nonperformance by those divested businesses could affect our future financial results. business disruptions could seriously affect our future sales and financial condition or increase our costs and expenses. our business may be impacted by disruptions including, but not limited to, threats to physical security, information technology attacks or failures, damaging weather or other acts of nature and pandemics or other public health crises. such disruptions could affect our internal operations or services provided to customers, and could impact our sales, increase our expenses or adversely affect our reputation or our stock price. 22 table of contents unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future earnings. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. we are involved in environmental responses at some of our facilities and former facilities, and at third-party sites not owned by us where we have been designated a potentially responsible party by the epa or by a state agency. we manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the government. at such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs have historically been the responsibility of the government and we relied (and continue to rely with respect to past practices) upon government funding to pay such costs. while the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance are typically borne by either the government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. most of the laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. if we were convicted of a violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, our facility or facilities involved in the violation would be placed by epa on the excluded parties list maintained by the general services administration. the listing would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation had been cured. listed facilities cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded to us during any period of listing by the epa. we have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various federal and state statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. among the variables management must assess in evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites generally are changing cost estimates, continually evolving governmental environmental standards and cost allowability issues. for information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent estimable, see environmental matters in management discussion and analysis on page 40 and note 14 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies on pages 82 through 85 of this form 10-k. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. our business operates in many locations under government jurisdictions that impose income taxes. changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain revenues or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, audits by income tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our income tax expense. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies (including environmental remediation costs) that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by gaap in the u.s., we estimate material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. for a description of our current legal proceedings, see item 3 legal proceedings on pages 25 through 26 and note 14 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies on pages 82 through 85 of this form 10-k. in order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. our business has a continuing need to attract large numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support the growth of the enterprise and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. 23 table of contents historically, where employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. this does not assure, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to negotiate renewals of our existing collective bargaining agreements when they expire. if we were unsuccessful in those efforts, there is the potential that we could incur unanticipated delays or expenses in the programs affected by any resulting work stoppages. our forward-looking statements and projections may prove to be inaccurate. our actual financial results likely will be different from those projected due to the inherent nature of projections and may be better or worse than projected. given these uncertainties, you should not rely on forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k speak only as of the date of this form 10-k. we expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this form 10-k to reflect the occurrence of subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in our expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. the forward-looking statements in this form 10-k are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the federal securities laws. in addition, general economic conditions and trends, including interest rates, government budgets and inflation, can and do affect our businesses. for a discussion identifying additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the preceding discussion of risk factors on pages 18 through 24, government contracts and regulation on pages 16 through 17, industry considerations in management discussion and analysis on pages 33 through 36, note 1 significant accounting policies on pages 63 through 67, and critical accounting policies in management discussion and analysis on pages 37 through 40 of this form 10-k. other factors, in addition to those described, may affect our forward-looking statements or actual results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption quantitative and qualitative disclosure of market risk on page 54, and under the caption derivative financial instruments in note 1 significant accounting policies on page 65 of this form 10-k. 55 table of contentsrisk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. while we attempt to identify, manage and mitigate risks to our business to the extent practical under the circumstances, some level of risk and uncertainty will always be present. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. our existing u.s. government contracts are subject to continued appropriations by congress and may be terminated or delayed if future funding is not made available. reduced funding for defense procurement and research and development programs could result in terminated or delayed contracts and adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our sales and profitability. we rely heavily upon sales to the u.s. government including both dod and non-dod agencies, obtaining 84% of our sales from u.s. government customers in 2007. future sales from orders placed under our existing u.s. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. we and other u.s. defense contractors have benefited from an upward trend in overall u.s. defense spending in the last few years. this trend continued with the president budget request for fiscal year 2009, which reflects the continued commitment to modernize the armed forces and sustain current capabilities while prosecuting the war on terrorism. although the ultimate size of future defense budgets remains uncertain, current indications are that overall defense spending will continue to increase over the next few years, albeit at lower rates of growth. however, dod programs in which we participate, or in which we may seek to participate in the future, must compete with other programs for consideration during our nation budget formulation and appropriation processes. budget decisions made in this environment may have long-term consequences for our size and structure and that of the defense industry. while we believe that our programs are a high priority for national defense, there remains the possibility that one or more of our programs will be reduced, extended, or terminated. reductions in our existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could adversely affect our ability to grow our sales and profitability. we provide a wide range of defense, homeland security and information technology products and services to the u.s. government. while we believe that this diversity makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term impact on us, termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. in addition, termination of large programs or multiple contracts affecting a particular business site could require us to evaluate the continued viability of operating that site. changes in military strategy and planning may affect future procurement priorities and existing programs. we cannot predict whether potential changes in defense priorities will afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on or replacement programs, or whether we would have to close existing manufacturing facilities or incur expenses beyond those that would be reimbursed if one or more of our existing contracts were terminated for convenience due to lack of funding. see management discussion and analysis industry considerations beginning on page 33 of this report. we are continuing to invest in business opportunities where we can use our customer knowledge, technical strength and systems integration capabilities to win new business. whether we are successful in continuing to grow sales and profits will depend, in large measure, on whether we are able to deliver the best value solutions for our customer. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. a violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. in some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. for example, the u.s. government may terminate any of our government contracts and, in general, subcontracts, at its convenience, as well as for default based on performance. upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the 18 table of contents purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. upon termination for convenience of a cost reimbursement contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. such allowable costs would include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. the amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our services as a subcontractor. in addition, our u.s. government contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. the u.s. government generally has the right to not exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period if the agency is not satisfied with our performance on the contract. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the u.s. government. u.s. government agencies, including the defense contract audit agency and various agency inspectors general, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. the u.s. government also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor management, purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, accounting and information systems. any costs found to be misclassified may be nonreimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed may be subject to repayment. if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. the nature of our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. elements of our business provide products and services where insurance or indemnification may not be available, including: designing, developing, integrating, producing, sustaining and supporting products using advanced and unproven technologies designing, developing, integrating, producing, sustaining and supporting products with explosive or other inherently dangerous components designing, developing, integrating, producing, sustaining and supporting large systems such as spacecraft, satellites, intelligence systems and homeland security applications that operate primarily in extreme, high demand or high risk conditions deployment of employees in countries with unstable or competing governments; areas subject to peacekeeping or humanitarian missions; areas of armed conflict, at military installations or accompanying armed forces in the field training others to operate or repair advanced technology products or provide security or other homeland security-related services designing, developing, integrating, producing, sustaining and supporting products for the purpose of collecting, archiving, retrieving, fusing, distributing and analyzing various types of information. failure of these products and services could result in extensive loss of life or property damage. sometimes these products and services are controversial and our role in providing these products and services could subject us to criticism or harm our reputation. certain products and services may raise questions with respect to issues of civil liberties, intellectual property, trespass, conversion and similar concepts. the legal obligations of those working with developing technologies and the resulting products and services may raise issues of first impression and the legal decisions that do deal with these questions may differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction on a global basis. although indemnification by the u.s. government to cover potential claims or liabilities resulting from a failure of technologies developed and deployed may be available in some instances for our defense businesses, u.s. government indemnification may not be available for homeland security purposes. in addition, there are some instances where the u.s. 19 table of contents government could provide indemnification under applicable law, but elects not to do so. while we maintain insurance for some business risks, it is not possible to obtain coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. we generally seek, and in certain cases have obtained, limitation of such potential liabilities related to the sale and use of our homeland security products and services through qualification by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002. safety act qualification is less useful in mitigating potential liability for international applications of our homeland security products and services. where we are unable to secure indemnification or qualification under the safety act or choose not to do so, we may nevertheless elect to provide the product or service when we think the related risks are manageable or when emergency conditions relative to national security make qualification impracticable. our assumptions or judgment may prove to be inaccurate. substantial claims resulting from an accident, failure of our product or service, other incident or liability arising from our products and services in excess of any indemnity and our insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or was not obtained) could harm our financial condition, cash flows and operating results. any accident, failure, incident or liability, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. our earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs. at december 31, 2007, our backlog included both cost reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. cost reimbursable contracts generally have lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and developmental contracts are generally cost reimbursable contracts. our earnings and margins may vary materially depending on the types of long-term government contracts undertaken, the nature of the products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost reimbursable contracts, subject to a contract-ceiling amount in certain cases, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. the failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements can result in reduced fees and may affect our financial performance for the affected period. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. cost over-runs or the failure to perform on existing programs also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. if our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our prime contract performance and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. there is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, the workshare provided to the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, or our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa. a failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. a default termination could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, a delay in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers needs and may have an adverse effect upon our profitability. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs. changes in our estimates could affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract sales and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total 20 table of contents sales and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impacts of efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. estimates of award and incentive fees are also used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. for additional information on accounting policies and internal controls we have in place for recognizing sales and profits, see our discussion under management discussion and analysis critical accounting policies contract accounting/ revenue recognition beginning on page 37 and controls and procedures beginning on page 57, and note 1 significant accounting policies beginning on page 66 of this form 10-k. new accounting standards could result in changes to our methods of quantifying and recording accounting transactions, and could affect our financial results and financial position. changes to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap) arise from new and revised standards, interpretations and other guidance issued by the financial accounting standards board, the sec, and others. in addition, the u.s. government may issue new or revised cost accounting standards or cost principles. the effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. such changes could result in unanticipated effects on our results of operations, financial position and other financial measures. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings in future periods. our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense we record for our employee benefit plans. this is particularly true with expense for our pension plans. gaap requires that we calculate expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations are based on assumptions that we make relating to financial market and other economic conditions. changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in the assumptions we use. the key year-end assumptions used to estimate pension expense for the following year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the rate of increase in future compensation levels. our pension expense can also be affected by legislation and other government regulatory actions. for a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see management discussion and analysis critical accounting policies postretirement benefit plans beginning on page 38 of this form 10-k. international sales and suppliers may pose potentially greater risks. our international business may pose greater risks than our domestic business due to the greater potential for changes in foreign economic and political environments. in return, these greater risks are often accompanied by the potential to earn higher profits than from our domestic business. our international business is also highly sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets. sales of military products are affected by defense budgets (both in the u.s. and abroad) and u.s. foreign policy. sales of our products and services internationally are subject to u.s. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices including regulations relating to import-export control. violations of export control rules could result in suspension of our ability to export items from one or more business units or the entire corporation. depending on the scope of the suspension, this could have a material effect on our ability to perform certain international contracts. there are also u.s. and international regulations relating to investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as varying currency, political and economic risks. our contracts, however, generally are denominated in u.s. dollars. we also frequently team with international subcontractors and suppliers, and are exposed to similar risks. in international sales, we face substantial competition from both domestic manufacturers and foreign manufacturers, whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for their products. 21 table of contents some international customers require contractors to comply with industrial cooperation regulations and enter into industrial participation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements. offset agreements may require in-country purchases, manufacturing and financial support projects as a condition to obtaining orders or other arrangements. offset agreements generally extend over several years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with offset requirements. see contractual commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements in management discussion and analysis beginning on page 54 of this form 10-k. if we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions successfully, our financial results, business and future prospects could be harmed. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets and enter into agreements regarding possible investments, acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures. as part of our business strategy, we seek to identify acquisition opportunities that will expand or complement our existing products and services, or customer base, at attractive valuations. we often compete with others for the same opportunities. to be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate transaction terms, complete and close complex transactions and manage post-closing matters ( e.g ., integrate acquired companies and employees, realize anticipated operating synergies and improve margins) efficiently and effectively. investment, acquisition, joint venture and divestiture transactions often require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. if we are not successful in identifying and closing these transactions, we may not be able to maintain a competitive leadership position or may be required to expend additional resources to develop capabilities internally in certain segments. in evaluating transactions, we are required to make valuation assumptions and exercise judgment regarding business opportunities and potential liabilities. our assumptions or judgment may prove to be inaccurate. our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the material issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential loss contingencies of a particular transaction. future acquisitions might require that we issue stock or incur indebtedness. this could dilute returns to existing stockholders, or adversely affect our credit rating or future financial performance. we also may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation and other liabilities. while we believe that we have established appropriate procedures and processes to mitigate many of these risks, there is no assurance that our integration efforts and business acquisition strategy will be successful. divestitures may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, such as through guarantees or other financial arrangements, for a period of time following the transaction. nonperformance by those divested businesses could affect our future financial results. joint ventures operate under shared control with other parties. under the equity method of accounting, we recognize our share of the operating results of these ventures in our results of operations, and therefore our operating results can be affected by the performance of businesses over which we do not exercise unilateral control. business disruptions could seriously affect our future sales and financial condition or increase our costs and expenses. our business may be impacted by disruptions including, but not limited to, threats to physical security, information technology attacks or failures, damaging weather or other acts of nature and pandemics or other public health crises. such disruptions could affect our internal operations or services provided to customers, and could impact our sales, increase our expenses or adversely affect our reputation or our stock price. unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future earnings. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. we are involved in environmental responses at some of our facilities and former facilities, and at third-party sites not owned by us where we have been designated a potentially responsible party by the environmental protection agency (epa) or by a state agency. in addition, we could be affected by future regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change and other actions commonly referred to as green initiatives. we are currently developing a comprehensive program to reduce our impact on the environment. we manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the government. at such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs have historically been the responsibility of the government and we relied (and continue to rely with respect to past practices) upon government funding to pay such costs. while the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance are typically borne by either the government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. 22 table of contents most of the laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. if we were convicted of a violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, our facility or facilities involved in the violation would be placed by epa on the excluded parties list maintained by the general services administration. the listing would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation had been cured. listed facilities cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded to us during any period of listing by the epa. we have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various federal and state statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. among the variables management must assess in evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites generally are changing cost estimates, continually evolving governmental environmental standards and cost allowability issues. for information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent estimable, see environmental matters in management discussion and analysis beginning on page 39 and note 14 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies beginning on page 89 of this form 10-k. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. our business operates in many locations under government jurisdictions that impose income taxes. changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain revenues or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, audits by income tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our income tax expense. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies (including environmental remediation costs) that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by gaap in the u.s., we estimate material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. for a description of our current legal proceedings, see item 3 legal proceedings beginning on page 25 and note 14 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies beginning on page 87 of this form 10-k. in order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees. our business has a continuing need to attract large numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support the growth of the enterprise and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. historically, where employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. this does not assure, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to negotiate renewals of our existing collective bargaining agreements when they expire. if we were unsuccessful in those efforts, there is the potential that we could incur unanticipated delays or expenses in the programs affected by any resulting work stoppages. our forward-looking statements and projections may prove to be inaccurate. our actual financial results likely will be different from those projected due to the inherent nature of projections and may be better or worse than projected. given these uncertainties, you should not rely on forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k speak only as of the date of this form 10-k. we expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this form 10-k to reflect the occurrence of subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in our expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. the forward-looking statements in this form 10-k are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the federal securities laws. 23 table of contents in addition, general economic conditions and trends, including interest rates, government budgets and inflation, can and do affect our businesses. for a discussion identifying additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the preceding discussion of risk factors beginning on page 18, government contracts and regulation beginning on page 16, management discussion and analysis beginning on page 32, and note 1 significant accounting policies beginning on page 66 of this form 10-k. other factors, in addition to those described, may affect our forward-looking statements or actual results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption quantitative and qualitative disclosure of market risk beginning on page 56, and under the caption derivative financial instruments in note 1 significant accounting policies on page 69 of this form 10-k. 58 table of contentsrisk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. while we attempt to identify, manage and mitigate risks to our business to the extent practical under the circumstances, some level of risk and uncertainty will always be present. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. our existing u.s. government contracts are subject to continued appropriations by congress and may be terminated or delayed if future funding is not made available. reduced funding for defense procurement and research and development programs could result in terminated or delayed contracts and adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our sales and profitability. we rely heavily upon sales to the u.s. government including both dod and non-dod agencies, obtaining 84% of our sales from u.s. government customers in 2008. future sales from orders placed under our existing u.s. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. we and other u.s. defense contractors have benefited from an upward trend in overall u.s. defense spending in the last few years. this trend continued with the former president budget request for fiscal year 2009, which reflected the continued commitment to modernize the armed forces and sustain current capabilities while prosecuting the war on terrorism. future defense budgets and appropriations for our programs and contracts may be affected by possibly differing priorities of the new administration, including budgeting constraints stemming from the economic recovery and stimulus plans. although the ultimate size of future defense budgets remains uncertain, current indications are that overall defense spending will continue to increase over the next few years, albeit at lower rates of growth. however, dod programs in which we participate, or in which we may seek to participate in the future, must compete with other programs for consideration during our nation budget formulation and appropriation processes, and may be impacted by the changes in general economic conditions. budget decisions made in this environment may have long-term consequences for our size and structure and that of the defense industry. we believe that our programs are a high priority for national defense, but there remains the possibility that one or more of our programs will be reduced, extended, or terminated. reductions in our existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could adversely affect our ability to grow our sales and profitability. in this regard, we are pursuing a strategy in which we seek to expand and complement our existing products and services by moving into adjacent businesses in which we believe that our core competencies will enable us to successfully compete. we may seek to move into adjacent businesses through investments, acquisitions, joint ventures, or by developing our internal capabilities. if we are not successful in this effort, we may not be able to grow our sales and profitability at the rates we anticipate or may have deployed financial and management resources sub-optimally. we provide a wide range of defense, homeland security and information technology products and services to the u.s. government. although we believe that this diversity makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term effect on us, termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. in addition, termination of large programs or multiple contracts at a particular business site could require us to evaluate the continued viability of operating that site. changes in global security strategy and planning may affect future procurement priorities and existing programs. we cannot predict whether potential changes in security, defense, and intelligence priorities will afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on or replacement programs, or whether we would have to close existing manufacturing facilities or incur expenses beyond those that would be reimbursed if one or more of our existing contracts were terminated for convenience due to lack of funding. see management discussion and analysis industry considerations beginning on page 34 of this report. we are continuing to invest in business opportunities where we can use our customer knowledge, technical strength and systems integration capabilities to win new business. whether we are successful in continuing to grow sales and profits will depend, in large measure, on whether we are able to deliver the best value solutions for our customer. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in 18 table of contents some instances, impose added costs on our business. a violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, or debarment from bidding on contracts. in some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. for example, the u.s. government may terminate any of our government contracts and, in general, subcontracts, at its convenience, as well as for default based on performance. upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. upon termination for convenience of a cost reimbursement contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. such allowable costs would include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. the amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our services as a subcontractor. in addition, our u.s. government contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. the u.s. government generally has the right to not exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period if the agency is not satisfied with our performance on the contract. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the u.s. government. u.s. government agencies, including the defense contract audit agency and various agency inspectors general, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. the u.s. government also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor management, purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, accounting, and information systems. any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. the nature of our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. elements of our business provide products and services where insurance or indemnification may not be available, including: designing, developing, integrating, producing, sustaining and supporting products using: advanced and unproven technologies, explosive or other inherently dangerous components, systems such as spacecraft, satellites, intelligence systems and homeland security applications that operate in extreme, high demand or high risk conditions; designing, developing, integrating, producing, sustaining and supporting products to collect, archive, retrieve, fuse, distribute and analyze various types of information; deploying employees in countries with unstable or competing governments, in areas subject to peacekeeping or humanitarian missions, in areas of armed conflict, at military installations, or accompanying armed forces in the field; and training others to operate or repair advanced technology products or provide security or other homeland security-related services. failure of these products and services could result in extensive loss of life or property damage. sometimes these products and services are controversial and our role in providing them could subject us to criticism or harm our reputation. certain products and services may raise questions with respect to issues of civil liberties, intellectual property, trespass, conversion and similar concepts. the legal obligations of those working with developing technologies and the resulting products and services may raise issues of first impression and the legal decisions that do deal with these questions may differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction on a global basis. 19 table of contents indemnification by the u.s. government to cover potential claims or liabilities resulting from a failure of technologies developed and deployed may be available in some instances for our defense businesses, but may not be available for homeland security purposes. in addition, there are some instances where the u.s. government could provide indemnification under applicable law, but elects not to do so. while we maintain insurance for some business risks, it is not possible to obtain coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. we generally seek, and in certain cases have obtained, limitation of potential liabilities related to the sale and use of our homeland security products and services through qualification by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002. safety act qualification is less useful and may not be available to mitigate potential liability for products and services sold internationally. where we are unable to secure indemnification or qualification under the safety act or choose not to do so, we may nevertheless elect to provide the product or service when we think the related risks are manageable or when emergency conditions relative to national security make qualification impracticable. substantial claims resulting from an accident, failure of our product or service, other incident or liability arising from our products and services in excess of any indemnity and our insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or was not obtained) could harm our financial condition, cash flows and operating results. any accident, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. it also could affect the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. our earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs. our backlog includes both cost reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. cost reimbursable contracts generally have lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. production contracts mainly are fixed-price contracts, and developmental contracts generally are cost reimbursable contracts. our earnings and margins may vary materially depending on the types of long-term government contracts undertaken, the nature of the products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees is finally determined (particularly under award and incentive fee contracts). under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price despite the actual costs we incur. we have to absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. however, if our costs exceed the contract target cost or are not allowable under the applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. the failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements may result in reduced fees and affect our financial performance in that period. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, our operating results could be adversely affected. cost overruns or the failure to perform on existing programs also may adversely affect our ability to keep existing programs and win future contract awards. if our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our prime contract performance and our ability to win future business could be harmed. many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. there is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, the workshare provided to the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, or our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa. in addition, our subcontractors may be affected by the current economic environment and constraints on available financing to meet their performance requirements or provide needed supplies on a timely basis. a failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may affect our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. a default termination could expose us to liability and affect our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, a delay in obtaining components and parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers needs and may affect our profitability. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs. changes in our estimates may affect future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract sales and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total sales and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, assumptions have to be made 20 table of contents regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impacts of efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. estimates of award and incentive fees are also used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because judgments and estimates are required, materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. for additional information on accounting policies and internal controls we have in place for recognizing sales and profits, see our discussion under management discussion and analysis critical accounting policies contract accounting / revenue recognition beginning on page 38 and controls and procedures beginning on page 59, and sales and earnings in note 1 significant accounting policies on page 68 of this form 10-k. new accounting standards could result in changes to our methods of quantifying and recording accounting transactions, and could affect our financial results and financial position. changes to gaap arise from new and revised standards, interpretations and other guidance issued by the financial accounting standards board, the sec, and others. in addition, the u.s. government may issue new or revised cost accounting standards or cost principles. the effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. changes may result in unanticipated effects on our results of operations or other financial measures. the level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense we record for our employee benefit plans. this is particularly true with expense for our pension plans. gaap requires that we calculate expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations are based on assumptions that we make relating to financial market and other economic conditions. changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in the assumptions we use. the key year-end assumptions used to estimate pension expense for the following year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and the rate of increase in future compensation levels. in 2008, negative asset returns significantly and negatively affected our future benefit plan expense and requirements to fund the plans. our benefit plan expense also may be affected by legislation and other government regulatory actions. for a discussion regarding how our financial statements may be affected by benefit plan accounting policies, see management discussion and analysis critical accounting policies postretirement benefit plans beginning on page 39 and note 10 postretirement benefit plans beginning on page 82 of this form 10-k. international sales and suppliers may pose potentially greater risks. our international business may pose greater risks than our domestic business due to the potential for greater volatility in foreign economic and political environments. in return, these greater risks are often accompanied by the potential to earn higher profits than from our domestic business. our international business also is highly sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets which may be further impacted by global economic conditions. sales of military products are affected by defense budgets (both in the u.s. and abroad) and u.s. foreign policy. sales of our products and services internationally are subject to u.s. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices including regulations relating to import-export control. violations of export control rules could result in suspension of our ability to export items from one or more business units or the entire corporation. depending on the scope of the suspension, this could have a material effect on our ability to perform certain international contracts. there also are u.s. and international regulations relating to investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as currency, political and economic risks. we also frequently team with international subcontractors and suppliers, who are exposed to similar risks. in international sales, we face substantial competition from both domestic manufacturers and foreign manufacturers whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for their products. 21 table of contents some international customers require contractors to comply with industrial cooperation regulations and enter into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements. offset agreements may require in-country purchases, manufacturing and financial support projects as a condition to obtaining orders or other arrangements. offset agreements generally extend over several years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with offset requirements. see contractual commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements in management discussion and analysis beginning on page 55 of this form 10-k. if we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions successfully, our financial results, business and future prospects could be harmed. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets and enter into agreements regarding possible investments, acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures. as part of our business strategy, we seek to identify acquisition opportunities that will expand or complement our existing products and services, or customer base, at attractive valuations. we often compete with others for the same opportunities. to be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate transaction terms, complete and close complex transactions and manage post-closing matters ( e.g ., integrate acquired companies and employees, realize anticipated operating synergies and improve margins) efficiently and effectively. investment, acquisition, joint venture and divestiture transactions often require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. if we are not successful in identifying and closing these transactions, we may not be able to maintain a competitive leadership position or may be required to expend additional resources to develop capabilities internally in certain segments. in evaluating transactions, we are required to make valuation assumptions and exercise judgment regarding business opportunities and potential liabilities. our assumptions or judgment may prove to be inaccurate. our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the material issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential loss contingencies of a particular transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from the acquisition target previous activities. future acquisitions, if funded by issuing stock or incurring indebtedness, could dilute returns to existing stockholders, or adversely affect our credit rating or future financial performance. we also may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation and other liabilities. we believe that we have established appropriate procedures and processes to mitigate many of these risks, but there is no assurance that our integration efforts and business acquisition strategy will be successful. divestitures may result in continued financial involvement through guarantees or other financial arrangements for a period of time following the transaction. nonperformance by divested businesses could affect our future financial results. joint ventures operate under shared control with other parties. under the equity method of accounting for nonconsolidated joint ventures, we recognize our share of the operating results of these ventures in our results of operations. our operating results may be affected by the performance of businesses over which we do not exercise control. business disruptions could seriously affect our future sales and financial condition or increase our costs and expenses. our business may be impacted by disruptions including, but not limited to, threats to physical security, information technology attacks or failures, damaging weather or other acts of nature and pandemics or other public health crises. such disruptions could affect our internal operations or services provided to customers, and could impact our sales, increase our expenses or adversely affect our reputation or our stock price. unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future earnings. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. we are involved in environmental responses at some of our facilities and former facilities, and at third-party sites not owned by us where we have been designated a potentially responsible party by the environmental protection agency (epa) or by a state agency. in addition, we could be affected by future regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change and other actions commonly referred to as green initiatives. we currently are developing a comprehensive program to reduce the effects of our operations on the environment. we manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the government. at such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs historically have been the responsibility of the government, and we have relied (and continue to rely with respect to past practices) upon government funding to pay such costs. while the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance typically are borne by either the government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. 22 table of contents most of the laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. if we were to be convicted of a violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the excluded parties list maintained by the general services administration. the listing would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation had been cured. listed facilities cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract while so listed by the epa. we have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various federal and state statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. among the variables management must assess in evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites generally are the extent of the contamination, changing cost estimates, evolution of technologies used to remediate the site, and continually evolving governmental environmental standards and cost allowability issues. for information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent estimable, see critical accounting policies environmental matters in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations beginning on page 42 and in note 13 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies on page 90 of this form 10-k. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. our business operates in many locations under government jurisdictions that impose income taxes. changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain revenues or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, audits by income tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our income tax expense. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies (including environmental remediation costs) that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by gaap, we estimate material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. for a description of our current legal proceedings, see item 3 legal proceedings beginning on page 25 and note 13 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies beginning on page 90 of this form 10-k. in order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees. our business has a continuing need to attract large numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support the growth of the enterprise and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. historically, where employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. this does not assure, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to negotiate renewals of our existing collective bargaining agreements when they expire. if we were unsuccessful in those efforts, there is the potential that we could incur unanticipated delays or expenses in the programs affected by any resulting work stoppages. our forward-looking statements and projections may prove to be inaccurate. our actual financial results likely will be different from those projected due to the inherent nature of projections and may be better or worse than projected. given these uncertainties, you should not rely on forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k speak only as of the date of this form 10-k. we expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this form 10-k to reflect the occurrence of subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in our expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. the forward-looking statements in this form 10-k are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the federal securities laws. 23 table of contents in addition, general economic conditions and trends, including interest rates, government budgets and inflation, can and do affect our businesses. for a discussion identifying additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the preceding discussion of government contracts and regulation beginning on page 16, risk factors beginning on page 18, management discussion and analysis beginning on page 33, and note 1 significant accounting policies beginning on page 67 of this form 10-k. other factors, in addition to those described, may affect our forward-looking statements or actual results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption quantitative and qualitative disclosure of market risk beginning on page 58, under the caption derivative financial instruments in note 1 on page 70, and note 9 on page 81 of this form 10-k. 59 table of contentsrisk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. although we attempt to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business to the extent practical under the circumstances, some level of risk and uncertainty will always be present. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. 10 table of contents our existing u.s. government contracts are subject to continued appropriations by congress and may be terminated or delayed if future funding is not made available. reduced funding for defense procurement and research and development programs could result in terminated or delayed contracts and adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our sales and profitability. we rely heavily upon sales to the u.s. government including both dod and non-dod agencies, obtaining 85% of our sales from u.s. government customers in 2009. future sales from orders placed under our existing u.s. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. u.s. government programs in which we participate, or in which we may seek to participate in the future, must compete with other programs for consideration during our nation budget formulation and appropriation processes, and may be affected by changes in general economic conditions. budget decisions made in this environment may have long-term consequences for our size and structure and that of the defense industry. we believe that our programs are a high priority for national defense and other imperatives, but there remains the possibility that one or more of our programs will be reduced, extended, or terminated. reductions in our existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could adversely affect our ability to grow our sales and profitability. in this regard, we are pursuing a strategy in which we seek to expand and complement our existing products and services by moving into adjacent businesses in which we believe that our core competencies will enable us to successfully compete. we may seek to move into adjacent businesses through investments, acquisitions, joint ventures, or by developing our internal capabilities. if we are not successful in this effort, we may not be able to grow our sales and profitability at the rates we anticipate or may have deployed financial and management resources sub-optimally. we provide a wide range of defense, homeland security, and information technology products and services to the u.s. government. although we believe that this diversity makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term effect on us, termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. in addition, termination of large programs or multiple contracts at a particular business site could require us to evaluate the continued viability of operating that site. changes in global security strategy and planning may affect future procurement priorities and existing programs. we cannot predict whether potential changes in security, defense, and intelligence priorities will afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on, or replacement programs, or whether we would have to close existing manufacturing facilities or incur expenses beyond those that would be reimbursed if one or more of our existing contracts were terminated for convenience due to lack of funding or changes in priorities. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry considerations beginning on page 27 of this report. we are continuing to invest in business opportunities where we can use our customer knowledge, technical strength, and systems integration capabilities to win new business. whether we are successful in continuing to grow sales and profits will depend, in large measure, on whether we are able to deliver the best value solutions for our customer. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of u.s. government contracts. government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. a violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, or debarment from bidding on contracts. in some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. for example, the u.s. government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts either at its convenience or for default based on performance. upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process, and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. upon termination for convenience of a cost reimbursement contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. allowable costs would include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. the amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. our ability to 11 table of contents recover is subject to the u.s. government having appropriated sufficient funds to cover the termination costs. as funds are typically appropriated on a fiscal-year basis and as the costs of a termination for convenience may exceed the costs of continuing a program in a given fiscal year, many on-going programs do not have sufficient funds appropriated to cover the termination costs were the government to terminate them for convenience. the u.s. government is not required to appropriate additional funding under these circumstances. a termination arising out of our default may expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, notwithstanding the quality of our services as a subcontractor. in addition, our u.s. government contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. the u.s. government generally has the right to not exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period if the agency is not satisfied with our performance on the contract. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the u.s. government. u.s. government agencies, including the defense contract audit agency and various agency inspectors general, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. the u.s. government also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor management, purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, accounting, and information systems. any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. the nature of our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. elements of our business provide products and services where insurance or indemnification may not be available, including: designing, developing, integrating, producing, sustaining, and supporting products using: advanced and unproven technologies; explosive or other inherently dangerous components; systems such as spacecraft, satellites, intelligence systems, and homeland security applications that operate in extreme, high demand, or high risk conditions; designing, developing, integrating, producing, sustaining, and supporting products to collect, archive, retrieve, fuse, distribute, and analyze various types of information; deploying employees in countries with unstable or competing governments, in areas subject to peacekeeping or humanitarian missions, in areas of armed conflict, at military installations, or accompanying armed forces in the field; and training others to operate or repair advanced technology products or provide security or other homeland security-related services. failure of some of these products and services could result in extensive loss of life or property damage. sometimes these products and services are controversial and our role in providing them could subject us to criticism or harm our reputation. certain products and services may raise questions with respect to issues of civil liberties, intellectual property, trespass, conversion, and similar concepts. the legal obligations of those working with developing technologies and the resulting products and services may raise issues of first impression, and the legal decisions that do deal with these questions may differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction on a global basis. indemnification by the u.s. government to cover potential claims or liabilities resulting from a failure of technologies developed and deployed may be available in some instances for our defense businesses, but may not be available for homeland security purposes. in addition, there are some instances where the u.s. government could provide indemnification under applicable law, but elects not to do so. although we maintain insurance for some business risks, it is not possible to obtain coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. we generally seek, and in certain cases have obtained, limitation of potential liabilities related to the sale and use of our homeland security products and services through 12 table of contents qualification by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002. safety act qualification is less useful and may not be available to mitigate potential liability for products and services sold internationally. where we are unable to secure indemnification or qualification under the safety act or choose not to do so, we may nevertheless elect to provide the product or service when we think the related risks are manageable or when emergency conditions relative to national security make qualification impracticable. substantial claims resulting from an accident, failure of our product or service, other incident, or liability arising from our products and services in excess of any indemnity and our insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or was not obtained) could harm our financial condition, cash flows, and operating results. any accident, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. it also could affect the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. our earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs. our backlog includes both cost reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. cost reimbursable contracts generally have lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. production contracts mainly are fixed-price contracts, and developmental contracts generally are cost reimbursable contracts. our earnings and margins may vary materially depending on the types of long-term government contracts undertaken, the nature of the products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees is finally determined (particularly under award and incentive fee contracts). under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price despite the actual costs we incur. we have to absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. if our costs exceed the contract target cost or are not allowable under the applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. the failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements may result in reduced fees and affect our financial performance in that period. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, our operating results could be affected adversely. cost overruns or the failure to perform on existing programs also may affect adversely our ability to keep existing programs and win future contract awards. if our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our prime contract performance and our ability to win future business could be harmed. many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. there is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, the workshare provided to the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract and the subcontractor performance, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, or our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa. in addition, our subcontractors may be affected by changes in the economic environment and constraints on available financing to meet their performance requirements or provide needed supplies on a timely basis. a failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may affect our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. subcontractor performance deficiencies may affect our operating results and could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. a default termination could expose us to liability and affect our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, a delay in obtaining components and parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers needs and may affect our profitability. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs. changes in our estimates may affect future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract sales and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total sales and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impacts of efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. estimates of award and incentive fees are also used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. 13 table of contents because judgments and estimates are required, materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may affect adversely our future period financial performance. for additional information on accounting policies and internal controls we have in place for recognizing sales and profits, see our discussion under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies contract accounting / revenue recognition beginning on page 31 and controls and procedures beginning on page 53, and sales and earnings in note 1 significant accounting policies on page 62 of this form 10-k. new accounting standards could result in changes to our methods of quantifying and recording accounting transactions, and could affect our financial results and financial position. changes to gaap arise from new and revised standards, interpretations, and other guidance issued by the financial accounting standards board, the sec, and others. in addition, the u.s. government may issue new or revised cost accounting standards or cost principles. the effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. changes may result in unanticipated effects on our results of operations or other financial measures. the level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets and changes in the actuarial assumptions used could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense we record for our postretirement benefit plans. this is particularly true with expense for our defined benefit pension plans. gaap requires that we calculate expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations are based on assumptions that we make relating to financial market and other economic conditions. changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in the assumptions we use. the key year-end assumptions used to estimate pension expense for the following year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and the rate of increase in future compensation levels. our benefit plan expense and plan funding requirements also may be affected by our actual return on plan assets, and by legislation and other government regulatory actions. for a discussion regarding how our financial statements may be affected by benefit plan accounting policies, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies postretirement benefit plans beginning on page 33 and note 10 postretirement benefit plans beginning on page 74 of this form 10-k. international sales and suppliers may pose potentially greater risks. our international business may pose greater risks than our domestic business due to the potential for greater volatility in foreign economic and political environments. in addition, international procurement rules and regulations, contract laws and regulations, and contractual terms are different from those in the united states, imposing additional risks on us. in return, the greater risks of our international business are often accompanied by the potential to earn higher profits than from our domestic business. our international business also is highly sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets, which may be further impacted by global economic conditions. sales of military products are affected by defense budgets (both in the u.s. and abroad) and u.s. foreign policy. sales of our products and services internationally are subject to u.s. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices including regulations relating to import-export control. violations of export control rules could result in suspension of our ability to export items from one or more business units or the entire corporation. depending on the scope of the suspension, this could have a material effect on our ability to perform certain international contracts. there also are u.s. and international regulations relating to investments, exchange controls, taxation, and repatriation of earnings, as well as currency, political, and economic risks. we also frequently team with international subcontractors and suppliers who are exposed to similar risks. in international sales, we face substantial competition from both domestic manufacturers and foreign manufacturers whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies, and other assistance for their products. some international customers require contractors to comply with industrial cooperation regulations and enter into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements. offset agreements may require in-country purchases, manufacturing, and financial support projects as a condition to obtaining orders or other arrangements. offset 14 table of contents agreements generally extend over several years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with offset requirements. see contractual commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations beginning on page 49 of this form 10-k. if we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions successfully, our financial results, business, and future prospects could be harmed. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets, and enter into agreements regarding possible investments, acquisitions, joint ventures, and divestitures. as part of our business strategy, we seek to identify acquisition opportunities that will expand or complement our existing products and services, or customer base, at attractive valuations. we often compete with others for the same opportunities. to be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate transaction terms, complete and close complex transactions, and manage post-closing matters ( e.g ., integrate acquired companies and employees, realize anticipated operating synergies, and improve margins) efficiently and effectively. investment, acquisition, joint venture, and divestiture transactions often require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. if we are not successful in identifying and closing these transactions, we may not be able to maintain a competitive leadership position or may be required to expend additional resources to develop capabilities internally in certain segments. in evaluating transactions, we are required to make valuation assumptions and exercise judgment regarding business opportunities and potential liabilities. our assumptions or judgment may prove to be inaccurate. our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the material issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential loss contingencies of a particular transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from the acquisition target previous activities. future acquisitions, if funded by issuing stock or incurring indebtedness, could dilute returns to existing stockholders, or adversely affect our credit rating or future financial performance. we also may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation, and other liabilities. we believe that we have established appropriate procedures and processes to mitigate many of these risks, but there is no assurance that our integration efforts and business acquisition strategy will be successful. divestitures may result in continued financial involvement through guarantees or other financial arrangements for a period of time following the transaction. nonperformance by divested businesses could affect our future financial results. joint ventures operate under shared control with other parties. under the equity method of accounting for nonconsolidated joint ventures, we recognize our share of the operating results of these ventures in our results of operations. our operating results may be affected by the performance of businesses over which we do not exercise control. business disruptions could seriously affect us. our business may be affected by disruptions including, but not limited to: threats to physical security of our facilities and employees, including senior executives; terrorist acts; information technology attacks or failures; damaging weather or other acts of nature; and pandemics or other public health crises. the costs related to these events may not be fully mitigated by insurance or other means. disruptions could affect our internal operations or services provided to customers, and could impact our sales, increase our expenses, or adversely affect our reputation or our stock price. unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future earnings. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. we are involved in environmental responses at some of our facilities and former facilities, and at third-party sites not owned by us where we have been designated a potentially responsible party by the environmental protection agency (epa) or by a state agency. in addition, we could be affected by future regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change and other actions commonly referred to as green initiatives. we currently are developing a comprehensive program to reduce the effects of our operations on the environment. we manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the government. at such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs historically have been the responsibility of the government, and we have relied (and continue to rely with respect to past practices) upon government funding to pay such costs. although the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance typically are borne by either the government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. 15 table of contents most of the laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. if we were to be convicted of a violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the excluded parties list maintained by the general services administration. the listing would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation had been cured. listed facilities cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract while so listed by the epa. we have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various federal and state statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. among the variables management must assess in evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites generally are the status of site assessment, extent of the contamination, changing cost estimates, evolution of technologies used to remediate the site, and continually evolving governmental environmental standards and cost allowability issues. for information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent estimable, see critical accounting policies-environmental matters in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations beginning on page 35 and in note 13 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies on page 84 of this form 10-k. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. our business operates in many locations under government jurisdictions that impose taxes based on income and other criteria. changes in domestic or foreign tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower tax rates assessed, changes in the taxability of certain revenues or activities, or changes in the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our tax expense and profitability. in addition, audits by tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our tax expense. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies (including environmental remediation costs) that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by gaap, we estimate material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. for a description of our current legal proceedings, see item 3 legal proceedings beginning on page 18 and note 13 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies beginning on page 84 of this form 10-k. in order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees. our business has a continuing need to attract large numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support the growth of the enterprise and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. we also must manage leadership development and executive succession throughout our business. to the extent that we are unable to attract, develop, retain, and protect leadership talent successfully, we could experience business disruptions and impair our ability to achieve business objectives. historically, where employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. this does not assure, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to negotiate renewals of our existing collective bargaining agreements when they expire. if we were unsuccessful in those efforts, there is the potential that we could incur unanticipated delays or expenses in the programs affected by any resulting work stoppages. our forward-looking statements and projections may prove to be inaccurate. our actual financial results likely will be different from those projected due to the inherent nature of projections and may be better or worse than projected. given these uncertainties, you should not rely on forward-looking statements. the 16 table of contents forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k speak only as of the date of this form 10-k. we expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this form 10-k to reflect the occurrence of subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in our expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. the forward-looking statements in this form 10-k are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the federal securities laws. in addition, general economic conditions and trends, including interest rates, government budgets, and inflation, can and do affect our businesses. for a discussion identifying additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the preceding discussion of government contracts and regulation beginning on page 9, risk factors beginning on page 10, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations beginning on page 26, and note 1 significant accounting policies beginning on page 61 of this form 10-k. other factors, in addition to those described, may affect our forward-looking statements or actual results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption quantitative and qualitative disclosure of market risk beginning on page 52, and under the caption derivative financial instruments in note 1 on page 64, and note 9 on page 73 of this form 10-k. 53 table of contentsrisk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. 10 table of contents we depend heavily on u.s. government contracts. a decline or reprioritization of funding in the u.s. defense budget, that of other customers, or delays in the budget process could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our sales, earnings, and cash flow. we derived 84% of our sales from u.s. government customers in 2010, including both defense and non-defense agencies. we expect to continue to derive most of our sales from work performed under u.s. government contracts. those contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. the programs in which we participate must compete with other programs and policy imperatives for consideration during the budget and appropriation process. concerns about increased deficit spending, along with continued economic challenges, continue to place pressure on u.s. and international customer budgets. while we believe that our programs are well aligned with national defense and other priorities, shifts in domestic and international spending and tax policy, changes in security, defense, and intelligence priorities, the affordability of our products and services, general economic conditions and developments, and other factors may affect a decision to fund or the level of funding for existing or proposed programs. under such conditions, large or complex programs are potentially subject to increased scrutiny, particularly those programs that have experienced performance challenges. our largest program, the f-35 lightning ii joint strike fighter program, represented 12% of our sales in 2010, and is expected to represent a higher percentage of our sales in future years. the dod completed a technical baseline review of the system development and demonstration (sdd) portion of the f-35 program and made a recommendation to the office of the secretary of defense to restructure the program to address cost and schedule risk. the restructuring was announced by the secretary of defense on january 6, 2011 (see status of the f-35 program in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 26 of this form 10-k). we offer a diverse range of defense, homeland security, and information technology products and services. we believe that this makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term effect on our business; however, termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. we could incur expenses beyond those that would be reimbursed if one or more of our existing contracts were terminated for convenience due to lack of funding or other reasons. potential changes in funding priorities may afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on, or replacement programs. while we would expect to compete, and be well positioned as the incumbent on existing programs, we may not be successful, or the replacement programs may be funded at lower levels. in years when the u.s. government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year (september 30), government operations typically are funded through a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. when the u.s. government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in the procurement of products and services. the u.s. government is currently operating under a continuing resolution that is effective through march 4, 2011, and its budget for 2011 has not been finalized. this historically has not had a material effect on our business; however, should the continuing resolution be prolonged further or extended through the entire government fiscal year, it may cause procurement awards to shift and could cause our revenues to vary between periods from that projected. we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. our business and our reputation could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with those rules. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of u.s. government contracts. government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. a violation of specific laws and regulations could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, or debarment from bidding on contracts. in some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. for example, the u.s. government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts either at its convenience or for default based on performance. upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process, and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. upon termination for convenience of a 11 table of contents cost-reimbursable contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. allowable costs would include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. the amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. we attempt to ensure that adequate funds are available by notifying the customer when its estimated costs, including those associated with a possible termination for convenience, approach levels specified as being allotted to its programs. as funds are typically appropriated on a fiscal-year basis and as the costs of a termination for convenience may exceed the costs of continuing a program in a given fiscal year, occasionally on-going programs do not have sufficient funds appropriated to cover the termination costs were the government to terminate them for convenience. under such circumstances, the u.s. government could assert that it is not required to appropriate additional funding under these circumstances. a termination arising out of our default may expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, notwithstanding the quality of our services as a subcontractor. in addition, our u.s. government contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. the u.s. government generally has the right not to exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period if the agency is not satisfied with our performance on the contract. u.s. government agencies, including the defense contract audit agency and various agency inspectors general, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. the u.s. government also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor management, purchasing, property, estimating, evms, compensation, accounting, budgeting, billing, labor, and information systems (for discussion of the evms system at our fort worth location, see status of the f-35 program in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 26 of this form 10-k). any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. similar government oversight exists in most other countries where we conduct business. increased competition and bid protests in a budget-constrained environment may make it more difficult to grow or maintain our sales, earnings, and cash flow. as a leader in defense and global security, we have a large number of programs for which we are the incumbent contractor. a substantial portion of our business is awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government increasingly has relied upon competitive contract award types, including idiq, gsa schedule, and other multi-award contracts, which has the potential to create pricing pressure and increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids and proposals. the competitive bidding process entails substantial costs and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. following award, we may encounter significant expenses, delays, contract modifications, or even loss of the contract if our competitors protest or challenge contracts that are awarded to us. multi-award contracts require that we make sustained efforts to obtain task orders under the contract. we are facing increased competition, particularly in information technology and cyber security, from non-traditional competitors outside of the aerospace and defense industry. at the same time, our customers are facing budget constraints, trying to do more with less by cutting costs, identifying more affordable solutions, and reducing product development cycles. many consumer oriented companies outside the security industry are used to much shorter product development cycles. to remain competitive, we consistently must provide superior performance, advanced technology solutions, and service at an affordable cost and with the agility that our customers require to satisfy their mission objectives. international sales may pose different risks. in 2010, our sales to foreign governments (including foreign military sales funded, in whole or in part, by the u.s. government) were 15% of net sales. as a company, we have a goal to grow international sales over the next several years. our international business may pose risks that are different, and potentially greater, than those encountered in our domestic business due to the potential for greater volatility in foreign economic and political environments. international procurement rules and regulations, contract laws and regulations, and contractual terms are different from those in the united states, and may be interpreted differently by foreign courts. our international business is highly sensitive to changes in foreign national 12 table of contents priorities and government budgets, and may be further affected by global economic conditions and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. sales of military products are affected by defense budgets (both in the u.s. and abroad) and u.s. foreign policy. sales of our products and services internationally are subject to u.s. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices including regulations relating to import-export control. violations of export control rules could result in suspension of our ability to export items from one or more business units or the entire corporation. depending on the scope of the suspension, this could have a material effect on our ability to perform certain international contracts. there also are u.s. and international regulations relating to investments, exchange controls, taxation, and repatriation of earnings, as well as currency, political, and economic risks. we also frequently team with international subcontractors and suppliers who are exposed to similar risks. in international sales, we face substantial competition from both domestic manufacturers and foreign manufacturers whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies, and other assistance for their products. some international customers require contractors to comply with industrial cooperation regulations and enter into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements. offset agreements may require in-country purchases, manufacturing, and financial support projects as a condition to obtaining orders or other arrangements. offset agreements generally extend over several years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with offset requirements. see contractual commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations beginning on page 39 of this form 10-k. our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing, and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. failure of some of these products and services could result in extensive loss of life or property damage. accordingly, we also may incur liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including combat and air mobility aircraft, missile and space systems, command and control systems, air traffic control management systems, cyber security, homeland security, and training programs. in some, but not all circumstances, we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers, either through contractual provisions, qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, or otherwise. the amount of insurance coverage that we maintain may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an accident, failure of our product or service, or other incident, or liability arising from our products and services in excess of any indemnity and our insurance coverage (for which indemnity or insurance is not available or not obtained) could harm our financial condition, cash flows, or operating results. any accident, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. it also could affect the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. our earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs, our performance, and our ability to control costs. our earnings and margins may vary materially depending on the types of long-term government contracts undertaken, the nature of the products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees is finally determined (particularly under award and incentive fee contracts). changes in procurement policy favoring new, accelerated, or more incentive-based fee arrangements or different award fee criteria may affect the predictability of our profit rates. our backlog includes a variety of contract types which are intended to address changing risk and reward profiles as a program matures. contract types include cost-reimbursable, fixed-price incentive, fixed-price, and time-and-materials contracts. contracts for development programs that have complex design and technical challenges are typically cost-reimbursable. under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. in these cases, the associated financial risks primarily relate to a reduction in fees, and the program could be cancelled if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. 13 table of contents other contracts in backlog are for the transition from development to production ( e.g., low rate initial production), which includes the challenge of starting and stabilizing a manufacturing production and test line while the final design is being validated. these generally are cost-reimbursable or fixed-price incentive contracts, although there is a current stated u.s. government preference for fixed-price incentive contracts. under a fixed-price incentive contract, the allowable costs incurred are eligible for reimbursement, but are subject to a cost-share limit which affects profitability. if our costs exceed the contract target cost or are not allowable under the applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. there are also contracts for production as well as operations and maintenance of the delivered products that have the challenge of achieving a stable production and delivery rate, while maintaining operability of the product after delivery. these contracts are mainly fixed-price, although some operations and maintenance contracts are time and materials-type. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price despite the actual costs we incur. we have to absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. the failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements may result in reduced fees and affect our financial performance in that period. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, our operating results could be adversely affected, particularly if we are unable to justify an increase in contract value to our customers. cost overruns or the failure to perform on existing programs also may adversely affect our ability to retain existing programs and win future contract awards. if our subcontractors, suppliers, or teaming agreement or joint venture partners fail to perform their obligations, our performance and our ability to win future business could be harmed. many of our contracts involve subcontracts or teaming arrangements with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. we also sometimes bid for and contract work through joint ventures, rather than through subcontract or teaming arrangements. there is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, teammates, or venture members, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed, the workshare provided to that party, customer concerns about the other party performance, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders, or our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor, teammate, or venture member, or vice versa. in addition, the contracting parties on which we rely may be affected by changes in the economic environment and constraints on available financing to meet their performance requirements or provide needed supplies on a timely basis. a failure by one or more of those contracting parties to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis may affect our ability to perform our obligations. contracting party performance deficiencies may affect our operating results and could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. a default termination could expose us to liability and affect our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. the funding and costs associated with our pension and postretirement medical plans may temporarily impact our cash flow and cause our earnings and stockholders equity to fluctuate significantly from year to year. a substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and postretirement medical plans. the amount that we are required to fund and the costs of these plans are dependent upon various factors, including the actual market rate of return on plan assets, discount rates, plan participant population demographics, and future legislative and government regulatory requirements. changes in these factors affect our plan funding, cash flow, and earnings. for more information on how these factors could impact earnings and stockholders equity, see critical accounting policies postretirement benefit plans in management discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations beginning on page 43 of this form 10-k. we generally are able to recover these costs as allowable costs on our u.s. government contracts, but there are delays between when we contribute cash to the plans and recover it under government cost accounting rules. the pension protection act required the cost accounting standards (cas) board to modify its pension accounting rules to better align the recovery of pension contributions on u.s. government contracts with the new accelerated funding required by the act. the cas board has proposed changes to its pension accounting rules, but final rules are not expected to be effective until after 2011. in recent years, we have taken certain actions to mitigate the effect of our defined benefit pension plans on our financial results, including no longer offering a defined benefit pension plan to new, non-represented employees, and making substantial discretionary cash contributions to the existing plans to improve their funded status. in 2010, we contributed $2.2 billion to our defined benefit pension plans. 14 table of contents if we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions successfully, our financial results, business, and future prospects could be harmed. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets, and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, and equity investments. as part of our business strategy, we seek to identify acquisition or investment opportunities that will expand or complement our existing products and services, or customer base, at attractive valuations. we often compete with others for the same opportunities. to be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate transaction terms, complete and close complex transactions, and manage post-closing matters ( e.g ., integrate acquired companies and employees, realize anticipated operating synergies, and improve margins) efficiently and effectively. acquisition, divestiture, joint venture, and investment transactions often require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. unidentified pre-closing liabilities could affect our future financial results. joint ventures or equity investments operate under shared control with other parties. under the equity method of accounting for nonconsolidated joint ventures and investments, we recognize our share of the operating results of these ventures in our results of operations. our operating results may be affected by the performance of businesses over which we do not exercise control. for example, approximately 25% of the profit from our space systems business segment is derived from its equity investments in two joint ventures (see space transportation systems on page 8 of this form 10-k). management closely monitors the results of operations and cash flows generated by these investees. our business could be negatively affected by security threats or other disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information, threats to physical security of our facilities and employees, and terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures, natural disasters, or public health crises. the costs related to these events may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. business disruptions could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to customers, our financial results, our reputation, or our stock price. unforeseen environmental costs could affect our future earnings as well as the affordability of our products and services. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. we are involved in environmental responses at some of our facilities and former facilities, and at third-party sites not owned by us where we have been designated a potentially responsible party by the environmental protection agency (epa) or by a state agency. in addition, we could be affected by future regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change or environmental resources, and by other actions commonly referred to as green initiatives. we have an ongoing comprehensive program to reduce the effects of our operations on the environment. we manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the government. at such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs historically have been the responsibility of the government, and we have relied (and continue to rely with respect to past practices) upon government funding to pay such costs. although the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance typically are borne by either the government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. some environmental laws include criminal provisions. an environmental law conviction could affect our ability to be awarded future, or perform existing, u.s. government contracts. we have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various federal, state, local, and foreign statutes for environmental protection and remediation. the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. among the variables management must assess in evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites generally are the status of site assessment, extent of the contamination, impacts on natural resources, changing cost estimates, evolution of technologies used to remediate the site, and continually evolving governmental environmental standards and cost allowability issues. in january 2011, both the epa and the california office of environmental health hazard assessment announced plans to regulate two chemicals, perchlorate and hexavalent chromium, to a level that is expected to be substantially lower than the existing standard established in california. the rulemaking process is a lengthy one that takes one or more years to complete. if a substantially lower standard is adopted, we would expect a material increase in our cost estimates for remediation at several existing sites. for information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent probable and estimable, see critical accounting policies - environmental matters in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations beginning on page 45 and note 14 legal proceedings, commitments, and contingencies beginning on page 78 of this form 10-k. 15 table of contents we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies (including environmental remediation costs) that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by gaap, we estimate material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. for a description of our current legal proceedings, see item 3 legal proceedings beginning on page 17 and note 14 legal proceedings, commitments, and contingencies beginning on page 78 of this form 10-k. in order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees. our business has a continuing need to attract large numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support the growth of the enterprise and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. we increasingly compete with commercial technology companies outside of the aerospace and defense industry for qualified technical and scientific positions as the number of qualified domestic engineers is decreasing. to the extent that these companies grow faster in a recovering economy than our industry, or face fewer cost and product pricing constraints, they may be able to offer higher compensation to job candidates or our existing employees. to the extent that we lose experienced personnel through wage competition, normal attrition, or specific actions (such as the voluntary executive separation program (see note 3 restructuring and other activities beginning on page 59 of this form 10-k), business realignments, or divestitures), we must successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge from those individuals. we also must manage leadership development and succession planning throughout our business. to the extent that we are unable to attract, develop, retain, and protect leadership talent successfully, we could experience business disruptions and impair our ability to achieve business objectives. historically, where employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. this does not assure, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to negotiate renewals of our existing collective bargaining agreements when they expire. if we were unsuccessful in those efforts, there is the potential that we could incur unanticipated delays or expenses in the programs affected by any resulting work stoppages. our estimates, forward-looking statements, and projections may prove to be inaccurate. the accounting for some of our most significant activities is based on judgments and estimates, which are complex and subject to many variables. for example, accounting for sales using the percentage-of-completion method requires that we assess risks and make assumptions regarding schedule, cost, technical, and performance issues for each of our thousands of contracts, many of which are long-term in nature. another example is the goodwill asset recorded on our balance sheet which is subject to annual impairment testing. if we experience changes that negatively affect the expected cash flows of a reporting unit, we may be required to write off all or portion of the related goodwill. changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, including possibly with retroactive effect, and audits by tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our tax expense and lower profitability and cash flows. actual financial results could differ from our judgments and estimates. refer to critical accounting policies in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations beginning on page 41, and note 1 significant accounting policies beginning on page 55 of this form 10-k for a complete discussion of our significant accounting policies and use of estimates. our future financial results likely will be different from those projected due to the inherent nature of projections, and may be better or worse than expected. given these uncertainties, you should not rely on forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k speak only as of the date of this form 10-k. we expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this form 10-k to reflect the occurrence of subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in our expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. the forward-looking statements in this form 10-k are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the federal securities laws. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we maintain active relationships with a broad and diverse group of domestic and international financial institutions. we believe that they provide us with sufficient access to the general and trade credit we require to conduct business. we continue to closely monitor the financial market environment and actively manage counterparty exposure to minimize the potential impact from adverse developments with any single credit provider while ensuring availability of, and access to, sufficient credit resources. our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and market prices on certain equity securities. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate long-term debt. at december 31, 2010, the estimated fair value of our long-term debt instruments was approximately $6.2 billion, compared with a carrying value of $5.5 billion, excluding the $505 million unamortized discount. we may use derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. our foreign currency exchange contracts, the majority of which qualify for hedge accounting treatment, hedge the fluctuations in cash flows associated with firm commitments or specific anticipated transactions contracted in foreign currencies. related gains and losses on these contracts, to the extent they are effective hedges, are recognized in earnings at the same time the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. to the extent the hedges are ineffective, gains and losses on the contracts are recognized in current period earnings. the aggregate notional amount of the outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts at december 31, 2010 and 2009 was $2.2 billion and $1.9 billion. there were no interest rate derivatives outstanding at december 31, 2010 and 2009. at december 31, 2010, the net fair value of foreign currency exchange contracts outstanding was not material (see note 15). we evaluate the credit quality of potential counterparties to derivative transactions and only enter into agreements with those deemed to have acceptable credit risk at the time the agreements are executed. our foreign currency exchange hedge portfolio is diversified across several banks. we periodically monitor changes to counterparty credit quality as well as our concentration of credit exposure to individual counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we maintain a rabbi trust that includes investments to fund certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans. as of december 31, 2010, investments in the rabbi trust totaled $843 million and are reflected at fair value on our balance sheet in other assets. the rabbi trust holds investments in marketable equity securities and fixed-income securities that are exposed to price changes and changes in interest rates. changes in the value of the rabbi trust are recognized on our statement of earnings in other non-operating income (expense), net. during the year ended december 31, 2010, we recorded earnings totaling $56 million related to the increase in the value of the rabbi trust assets. we also contributed $49 million to the rabbi trust in 2010. a portion of the liabilities associated with the deferred compensation plans supported by the rabbi trust is also impacted by changes in the market price of our common stock and certain market indices. changes in the value of the deferred compensation liabilities are recognized on our statement of earnings in unallocated corporate costs. the current portion of the deferred compensation plan liabilities is on our balance sheet in salaries, benefits, and payroll taxes, and the non-current portion of the liability is on our balance sheet in other liabilities. the resulting change in the value of the liabilities has the effect of partially offsetting the impact of changes in the value of the rabbi trust. during the year ended december 31, 2010, we recorded expense of $41 million related to the increase in the value of the deferred compensation liabilities. 47 table of contentsrisk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. 8 table of contents we depend heavily on u.s. government contracts. a decline or reprioritization of funding in the u.s. defense budget or delays in the budget process could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our sales, earnings, and cash flow. we derived 82% of our sales from u.s. government customers in 2011, including 61% from the dod. we expect to continue to derive most of our sales from work performed under u.s. government contracts. those contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. the programs in which we participate must compete with other programs and policy imperatives for consideration during the budget and appropriation process. concerns about increased deficit spending, along with continued economic challenges, continue to place pressure on u.s. and international customer budgets. while we believe that our programs are well aligned with national defense and other priorities, shifts in domestic and international spending and tax policy, changes in security, defense, and intelligence priorities, the affordability of our products and services, general economic conditions and developments, and other factors may affect a decision to fund or the level of funding for existing or proposed programs. during 2011, the u.s. government was unable to reach agreement on budget reduction measures required by the budget control act of 2011 (budget act) passed by congress. unless congress and the administration take further action, the budget act will trigger automatic reductions in both defense and discretionary spending in january 2013. while the impact of sequestration is yet to be determined, automatic across-the-board cuts would approximately double the $487 billion top-line reduction already reflected in the defense funding over a ten-year period, with a $52 billion reduction occurring in the government fiscal year 2013. the resulting automatic across-the-board budget cuts in sequestration would have significant consequences to our business and industry. there would be disruption of ongoing programs and initiatives, facilities closures and personnel reductions that would severely impact advanced manufacturing operations and engineering expertise, and accelerate the loss of skills and knowledge, directly undermining a key provision of the new security strategy, which is to preserve the industrial base. in december 2011, congress passed an omnibus appropriations act for fiscal 2012 to finance all u.s. government activities through september 30, 2012, the end of its fiscal year. this full year method of financing eliminated much of the uncertainty and inefficiency in procurement of products and services that characterized the government first quarter of fiscal year 2012 when the operations of the federal government were financed through a series of continuing resolution temporary funding measures. under such conditions, large or complex programs are potentially subject to increased scrutiny, particularly those programs that have experienced performance challenges. our largest program, the f-35, represented 13% of our consolidated sales in 2011, and is expected to represent a higher percentage of our sales in future years. for additional information regarding the f-35 program, see status of the f-35 program in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we offer a diverse range of defense, homeland security, and information technology products and services. we believe that this makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term effect on our business; however, termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. we could incur expenses beyond those that would be reimbursed if one or more of our existing contracts were terminated for convenience due to lack of funding or other reasons. potential changes in funding priorities may afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on, or replacement programs. while we would expect to compete, and be well positioned as the incumbent on existing programs, we may not be successful, or the replacement programs may be funded at lower levels. in years when the u.s. government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year (september 30), government operations typically are funded through a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. when the u.s. government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in the procurement of products and services. historically, this has not had a material effect on our business; however, should a continuing resolution be prolonged further or extended through the entire government fiscal year, it may cause procurement awards to shift and cause our revenues to vary between periods. during periods covered by continuing resolutions (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), we may experience delays in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding; and those delays may affect our results of operations. at times, we may continue to work without funding, and use our funds, in order to meet our customer desired delivery dates for products or services. it is uncertain at this time which of our programs funding could be reduced in future years or whether new legislation will be passed by congress in the next fiscal year that could result in additional or alternative funding cuts. 9 table of contents we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. our business and our reputation could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with those rules. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of u.s. government contracts. government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. a violation of specific laws and regulations could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, or debarment from bidding on contracts. in some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. for example, the u.s. government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts either at its convenience or for default based on performance. upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process, and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. upon termination for convenience of a cost-reimbursable contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. allowable costs would include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. the amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. we attempt to ensure that adequate funds are available by notifying the customer when its estimated costs, including those associated with a possible termination for convenience, approach levels specified as being allotted to its programs. as funds are typically appropriated on a fiscal-year basis and as the costs of a termination for convenience may exceed the costs of continuing a program in a given fiscal year, occasionally on-going programs do not have sufficient funds appropriated to cover the termination costs were the government to terminate them for convenience. under such circumstances, the u.s. government could assert that it is not required to appropriate additional funding. a termination arising out of our default may expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, notwithstanding the quality of our services as a subcontractor. in addition, our u.s. government contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. the u.s. government generally has the right not to exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period for various reasons. in addition, the use of progress payment provisions on fixed price contracts may delay our ability to recover costs incurred and affect the timing of our cash flows. u.s. government agencies, including the defense contract audit agency, the defense contract management agency, and various agency inspectors general, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. the u.s. government also audits the adequacy of, and a contractor compliance with, its systems and policies, including the contractor business systems, purchasing, property, estimating, evms, compensation, accounting, budgeting, billing, labor, and information systems. for discussion of the evms at our fort worth location, see status of the f-35 program in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. inadequacies identified during government audits of evms, purchasing, billing, and labor systems also may result in withholds on billed receivables, which could potentially impact the timing of our cash flows. the withholds are imposed if the system inadequacy causes damages to the u.s government. if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. similar government oversight exists in most other countries where we conduct business. increased competition and bid protests in a budget-constrained environment may make it more difficult to maintain our financial performance. as a leader in defense and global security, we have a large number of programs for which we are the incumbent contractor. a substantial portion of our business is awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government increasingly has relied upon competitive contract award types, including idiq, gsa schedule, and other multi-award contracts, which has the potential to create pricing pressure and increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids and proposals. the 10 table of contents competitive bidding process entails substantial costs and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. following award, we may encounter significant expenses, delays, contract modifications, or even loss of the contract if our competitors protest or challenge contracts that are awarded to us. multi-award contracts require that we make sustained efforts to obtain task orders under the contract. we are facing increased competition, particularly in information technology and cyber security, from non-traditional competitors outside of the aerospace and defense industry. at the same time, our customers are facing budget constraints, trying to do more with less by cutting costs, identifying more affordable solutions, and reducing product development cycles. to remain competitive, we consistently must provide superior performance, advanced technology solutions, and service at an affordable cost and with the agility that our customers require to satisfy their mission objectives. international sales may pose different risks. in 2011, our sales to international customers (including foreign military sales funded, in whole or in part, by the u.s. government) were 17% of net sales. as a company, we have a goal to grow international sales over the next several years. our international business may pose risks that are different, and potentially greater, than those encountered in our domestic business due to the potential for greater volatility in foreign economic and political environments. international procurement rules and regulations, contract laws and regulations, and contractual terms are different from those in the u.s., and may be interpreted differently by foreign courts. our international business is highly sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets, and may be further affected by global economic conditions and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. sales of military products are affected by defense budgets (both in the u.s. and abroad) and u.s. foreign policy. in 2011, the european commission took actions to stem the debt crisis in a number of member countries of the european union and to stabilize the economies of these countries. the governments of a number of european countries have proposed austerity measures to their budgets as a condition for continued economic support from other european union countries (as well as the europe central bank) which could further constrain their defense budgets and fiscal priorities in current and future periods. given the ongoing negotiations of the european commission and its member nations, the effect of these austerity measures on our international sales is uncertain. sales of our products and services internationally are subject to u.s. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices including regulations relating to import-export control. violations of export control rules could result in suspension of our ability to export items from one or more business units or the entire corporation. depending on the scope of the suspension, this could have a material effect on our ability to perform certain international contracts. there also are u.s. and international regulations relating to investments, exchange controls, taxation, and repatriation of earnings, as well as currency, political, and economic risks. we also frequently team with international subcontractors and suppliers who are exposed to similar risks. in international sales, we face substantial competition from both domestic manufacturers and foreign manufacturers whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies, and other assistance for their products. some international customers require contractors to comply with industrial cooperation regulations and enter into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements. offset agreements may require in-country purchases, manufacturing, and financial support projects as a condition to obtaining orders or other arrangements. offset agreements generally extend over several years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with offset requirements. see contractual commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing, and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. failure of some of these products and services could result in extensive loss of life or property damage. accordingly, we also may incur liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including combat and air mobility aircraft, missile and space systems, command and control systems, air traffic control management systems, cyber security, homeland security, and training programs. in some, but not all circumstances, we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers, either through u.s. government indemnifications under public law 85-804, qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, contractual provisions, or 11 table of contents otherwise. the amount of insurance coverage that we maintain may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an accident, failure of our products or services, or other incident, or liability arising from our products and services in excess of any indemnity and our insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or not obtained) could adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows, or operating results. any accident, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. it also could affect the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. our earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs, our performance, and our ability to control costs. our earnings and margins may vary materially depending on the types of long-term government contracts undertaken, the nature of the products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees is finally determined (particularly under award and incentive fee contracts). changes in procurement policy favoring new, accelerated, or more incentive-based fee arrangements or different award fee criteria or government proposals that indicate what our costs should be may affect the predictability of our profit rates. our customers are under pressure that may result in a change in contract types earlier in program maturity or pursuit of non-traditional contract provisions in negotiation of contracts. our backlog includes a variety of contract types which are intended to address changing risk and reward profiles as a program matures. contract types include cost-reimbursable, fixed-price incentive, fixed-price, and time-and-materials contracts. contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges are typically cost-reimbursable. under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. in these cases, the associated financial risks primarily relate to a reduction in fees, and the program could be cancelled if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. other contracts in backlog are for the transition from development to production ( e.g ., low rate initial production), which includes the challenge of starting and stabilizing a manufacturing production and test line while the final design is being validated. these generally are cost-reimbursable or fixed-price incentive contracts, although there is a current stated u.s. government preference for fixed-price incentive contracts. under a fixed-price incentive contract, the allowable costs incurred are eligible for reimbursement, but are subject to a cost-share limit which affects profitability. changes resulting from the ongoing development phase may need to be implemented on the production contracts, a concept referred to as concurrency. the risks associated with estimating and recovering the potential cost of concurrency changes on lrip contracts may affect our earnings and cash flows. if our costs exceed the contract target cost or are not allowable under the applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. there are also contracts for production as well as operations and maintenance of the delivered products that have the challenge of achieving a stable production and delivery rate, while maintaining operability of the product after delivery. these contracts are mainly fixed-price, although some operations and maintenance contracts are time and materials-type. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price despite the actual costs we incur. we have to absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. the failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements may result in reduced fees and affect our financial performance in that period. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, our operating results could be adversely affected, particularly if we are unable to justify an increase in contract value to our customers. cost overruns or the failure to perform on existing programs also may adversely affect our ability to retain existing programs and win future contract awards. if our subcontractors, suppliers, or teaming agreement or joint venture partners fail to perform their obligations, our performance and our ability to win future business could be harmed. many of our contracts involve subcontracts or teaming arrangements with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. we also sometimes bid on contracts through joint ventures that award work through these entities, rather than through subcontract or teaming arrangements. there is a risk that 12 table of contents we may have disputes with our subcontractors, teammates, or venture members, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed, the workshare provided to that party, customer concerns about the other party performance, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders, or our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor, teammate, or venture member, or vice versa. in addition, the contracting parties on which we rely may be affected by changes in the economic environment and constraints on available financing to meet their performance requirements or provide needed supplies on a timely basis. a failure by one or more of those contracting parties to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis may affect our ability to perform our obligations. contracting party performance deficiencies may affect our operating results and could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. a default termination could expose us to liability and affect our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. the funding and costs associated with our pension and postretirement medical plans may cause our earnings, cash flows from operations, and stockholders equity to fluctuate significantly from year to year. many of our employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans, and we provide certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees. the impact of these plans on our gaap earnings may be volatile in that the amount of expense we record for our postretirement benefit plans may materially change from year to year because those calculations are sensitive to changes in several key economic assumptions, including interest rates, rates of return on plan assets, and workforce demographics. changes in these factors affect our plan funding, cash flow, earnings, and stockholders equity. with regard to cash flow, in the past few years we have made substantial cash contributions to our plans following erisa and in 2011, pension protection act (ppa) requirements. we generally are able to recover these costs related to our plans as allowable costs on our u.s. government contracts, including fms, but there are delays between when we contribute cash to the plans under pension funding rules and recover it under government cost accounting rules. in december 2011, the cost accounting rules were revised to harmonize the measurement and period assignment of the pension cost allocable to government contracts with the ppa, which will reduce this delay starting in 2013 (cas harmonization). the cost impact of cas harmonization will be phased in beginning in 2013 with the goal of better aligning the cas cost and erisa funding requirements being fully achieved in 2017. in recent years, we have taken certain actions to mitigate the effect of our defined benefit pension plans on our financial results, including no longer offering a defined benefit pension plan to new, non-represented employees starting in 2006, and making substantial cash contributions to the existing plans to improve their funded status. in 2011, we contributed $2.3 billion to our defined benefit pension plans. for more information on how these factors could impact earnings, financial position, cash flow and stockholders equity, see critical accounting policies postretirement benefit plans in management discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations and note 10 postretirement benefits. if we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions successfully, our financial results, business, and future prospects could be harmed. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets, and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, and equity investments. we seek to identify acquisition or investment opportunities that will expand or complement our existing products and services, or customer base, at attractive valuations. we often compete with others for the same opportunities. to be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate transaction terms, complete and close complex transactions, and manage post-closing matters ( e.g ., integrate acquired companies and employees, realize anticipated operating synergies, and improve margins) efficiently and effectively. acquisition, divestiture, joint venture, and investment transactions often require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. unidentified pre-closing liabilities could affect our future financial results. joint ventures or equity investments operate under shared control with other parties. under the equity method of accounting for nonconsolidated joint ventures and investments, we recognize our share of the operating results of these ventures in our results of operations. our operating results may be affected by the performance of businesses over which we do not exercise control. the most significant impact of our equity investments is in our space systems business segment where approximately 25% of its 2011 operating profit was derived from its equity investments in two joint ventures (see space systems above). management closely monitors the results of operations and cash flows generated by these investees. 13 table of contents our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face cyber threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, and terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures, natural disasters, or public health crises. we routinely experience cyber security threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to our company sensitive information, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. we may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage as a contractual requirement. prior cyber attacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results, and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are robust. due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. although we work cooperatively with our customers and our suppliers, subcontractors, and joint venture partners to seek to minimize the impacts of cyber threats, other security threats or business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by those entities. the costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to customers, loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts, early obsolescence of our products and services, our future financial results, our reputation or our stock price. unforeseen environmental costs could affect our future earnings as well as the affordability of our products and services. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. we are involved in environmental responses at some of our facilities and former facilities, and at third-party sites not owned by us where we have been designated a potentially responsible party by the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) or by a state agency. in addition, we could be affected by future regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources, and by other actions commonly referred to as green initiatives. we have an ongoing comprehensive program to reduce the effects of our operations on the environment. we manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the government. at such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs historically have been the responsibility of the government, and we have relied (and continue to rely with respect to past practices) upon government funding to pay such costs. although the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance typically are borne by either the government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. some environmental laws include criminal provisions. an environmental law conviction could affect our ability to be awarded future, or perform existing, u.s. government contracts. we have incurred and will continue to incur liabilities under various federal, state, local, and foreign statutes for environmental protection and remediation. the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. among the variables management must assess in evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites generally are the status of site assessment, extent of the contamination, impacts on natural resources, changing cost estimates, evolution of technologies used to remediate the site, and continually evolving governmental environmental standards and cost allowability issues. both the epa and the california office of environmental health hazard assessment announced plans in january 2011 to regulate two chemicals, perchlorate and hexavalent chromium, to levels in drinking water that are expected to be substantially lower than the existing public health goals or standards established in california. the rulemaking process is a lengthy one that takes one or more years to complete. if a substantially lower standard is adopted, we would expect a material increase in our cost estimates for remediation at several existing sites. for information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent probable and estimable, see critical accounting policies environmental matters in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 13 legal proceedings, commitments, and contingencies. 14 table of contents we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by gaap, we estimate material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. for a description of our current legal proceedings, see item 3 legal proceedings and note 13 legal proceedings, commitments, and contingencies. in order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees. our business has a continuing need to attract large numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support the growth of the enterprise and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. we increasingly compete with commercial technology companies outside of the aerospace and defense industry for qualified technical and scientific positions as the number of qualified domestic engineers is decreasing. to the extent that these companies grow faster than our industry, or face fewer cost and product pricing constraints, they may be able to offer higher compensation to job candidates or our existing employees. to the extent that we lose experienced personnel through wage competition, normal attrition, or specific actions, we must successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge from those individuals. we also must manage leadership development and succession planning throughout our business. to the extent that we are unable to attract, develop, retain, and protect leadership talent successfully, we could experience business disruptions and impair our ability to achieve business objectives. historically, where employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. this does not assure, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to negotiate renewals of our existing collective bargaining agreements when they expire. if we were unsuccessful in those efforts, there is the potential that we could incur unanticipated delays or expenses in the programs affected by any resulting work stoppages. our estimates, forward-looking statements, and projections may prove to be inaccurate. the accounting for some of our most significant activities is based on judgments and estimates, which are complex and subject to many variables. for example, accounting for sales using the percentage-of-completion method requires that we assess risks and make assumptions regarding schedule, cost, technical, and performance issues for each of our thousands of contracts, many of which are long-term in nature. another example is the goodwill assets recorded on our balance sheet, which represent greater than 25% of our total assets, and are subject to annual impairment testing. if we experience changes or factors arise that negatively affect the expected cash flows of a reporting unit, we may be required to write off all or a portion of the related goodwill. changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, including possibly with retroactive effect, and audits by tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our tax expense and affect profitability and cash flows. for example, if the corporate tax rate was lowered, our deferred tax assets would be reduced with a corresponding material, one-time increase to income tax expense; however, income tax expense and payments would be reduced in subsequent years. actual financial results could differ from our judgments and estimates. refer to critical accounting policies in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and note 1 significant accounting policies for a complete discussion of our significant accounting policies and use of estimates. our future financial results likely will be different from those projected due to the inherent nature of projections, and may be better or worse than expected. given these uncertainties, you should not rely on forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k speak only as of the date of this form 10-k. we expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this form 10-k to reflect the occurrence of subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in our expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. the forward-looking statements in this form 10-k are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the federal securities laws. 15 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we maintain active relationships with a broad and diverse group of domestic and international financial institutions. we believe that they provide us with sufficient access to the general and trade credit we require to conduct business. we continue to closely monitor the financial market environment and actively manage counterparty exposure to minimize the potential impact from adverse developments with any single credit provider while ensuring availability of, and access to, sufficient credit resources. our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and market prices on certain equity securities. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate long-term debt. at december 31, 2011, the estimated fair value of our long-term debt instruments was approximately $7.8 billion, compared with a carrying value of $7.0 billion, excluding unamortized discounts of $506 million. a 10% change in the level of interest rates would not have a material impact on the fair value of our long-term debt outstanding at december 31, 2011. we use derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. foreign currency exchange contracts are entered into to manage the exchange rate risk of forecasted foreign currency denominated cash receipts and cash payments. the majority of our foreign currency exchange contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. we also use derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to changes in interest rates. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate, long-term debt. our interest rate swap 48 table of contents contracts are designated as fair value hedges. related gains and losses on foreign currency exchange and interest rate swap contracts, to the extent they are effective hedges, are recognized in earnings at the same time the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. to the extent the hedges are ineffective, gains and losses on the contracts are recognized in current period earnings. the aggregate notional amount of the outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts at december 31, 2011 and 2010 was $1.7 billion and $2.2 billion. the aggregate notional amount of our interest rate swap contracts at december 31, 2011 was $450 million. there were no interest rate swap contracts outstanding at december 31, 2010. at december 31, 2011 and 2010, the net fair value of our derivative instruments was not material (note 15). a 10% appreciation or devaluation of the hedged currency as compared to the level of foreign exchange rates for currencies under contract at december 31, 2011 would not have a material impact on the aggregate net fair value of such contracts or our cash flows. we evaluate the credit quality of potential counterparties to derivative transactions and only enter into agreements with those deemed to have acceptable credit risk at the time the agreements are executed. our foreign currency exchange hedge portfolio is diversified across several banks. we periodically monitor changes to counterparty credit quality as well as our concentration of credit exposure to individual counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we maintain a rabbi trust that includes investments to fund certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans. as of december 31, 2011, investments in the rabbi trust totaled $781 million and are reflected at fair value on our balance sheet in other assets. the rabbi trust holds investments in marketable equity securities and fixed-income securities that are exposed to price changes and changes in interest rates. changes in the value of the rabbi trust are recognized on our statement of earnings in other non-operating income, net, and were not material during 2011. a portion of the liabilities associated with the deferred compensation plans supported by the rabbi trust is also impacted by changes in the market price of our common stock and certain market indices. changes in the value of the deferred compensation liabilities are recognized on our statement of earnings in unallocated corporate costs and were not material during 2011. the current portion of the deferred compensation plan liabilities is on our balance sheet in salaries, benefits, and payroll taxes, and the non-current portion of the liability is on our balance sheet in other liabilities. the resulting change in the value of the liabilities has the effect of partially offsetting the impact of changes in the value of the rabbi trust. 49 table of contentsrisk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. we depend heavily on u.s. government contracts. our programs could be materially reduced, extended, or terminated as a result of the government continuing assessment of priorities, changes in government priorities, the implementation of sequestration, or other budget cuts intended to avoid sequestration. these matters and/or delays in the budget process, including a continuing resolution, could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our sales, earnings, and cash flow. we derived 82% of our consolidated net sales from u.s. government customers in 2012, including 61% from the department of defense (dod). we expect to continue to derive most of our sales from work performed under u.s. government contracts. those contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. 9 table of contents the programs in which we participate must compete with other programs and policy imperatives for consideration during the budget and appropriation process. concerns about increased deficit spending, along with continued economic challenges, continue to place pressure on u.s. and international customer budgets. while we believe that our programs are well aligned with national defense and other priorities, shifts in domestic and international spending and tax policy, changes in security, defense, and intelligence priorities, the affordability of our products and services, general economic conditions and developments, and other factors may affect a decision to fund or the level of funding for existing or proposed programs. should congress and the administration fail to change or further delay the pending sequestration of appropriations in government fiscal year (gfy) 2013 imposed by the budget control act of 2011 (budget act) now scheduled to take effect on march 1, 2013, our customers budgets would be reduced significantly and there would be a direct and significant reduction in our customers contract awards. while we understand customers have started to plan for sequestration, the specific effects of sequestration are not yet available and cannot be determined by us. the automatic across-the-board cuts from sequestration would approximately double the amount of the ten-year $487 billion reduction in defense spending that began in gfy 2012 already required by the budget act, including the budget for overseas contingencies operations and any unobligated balances from prior years, and would have significant consequences to our business and industry. non-dod agencies would also have significantly reduced budgets. there would be disruption of ongoing programs, impacts to our supply chain, contractual actions (including partial or complete terminations), potential facilities closures, and thousands of personnel reductions across the industry that would severely impact advanced manufacturing operations and engineering expertise, and accelerate the loss of skills and knowledge. consequently, we expect that sequestration, or other budgetary cuts in lieu of sequestration, would have a material effect on our corporation. for more information regarding sequestration, see industry considerations in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. under such conditions, large or complex programs, which consist of multiple contracts and phases, are potentially subject to increased scrutiny. our largest program, the f-35, represented 14% of our total consolidated net sales in 2012, and is expected to represent a higher percentage of our sales in future years. for more information regarding the f-35 program, see status of f-35 program in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. based upon our diverse range of defense, homeland security, and information technology products and services, we believe that this makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term effect on our business. however, termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. we could incur expenses beyond those that would be reimbursed if one or more of our existing contracts were terminated for convenience due to lack of funding or other reasons. potential changes in funding priorities may afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on, or replacement programs. while we would expect to compete, and be well positioned as the incumbent on existing programs, we may not be successful, or the replacement programs may be funded at lower levels. in years when the u.s. government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year (september 30), government operations typically are funded through a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. when the u.s. government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in contract awards due to lack of funding. the u.s. government is currently operating under a continuing resolution that is effective through march 27, 2013, and its budget for gfy 2013 has not been finalized. historically, this has not had a material effect on our business, although we did experience a decrease in contract awards and sales at our is&amp;gs business segment during the fourth quarter of 2012 due to the continued downturn in federal information technology budgets impacted by the continuing resolution. should the continuing resolution be prolonged further or extended through the entire government fiscal year or decisions regarding sequestration remain pending, it may cause additional government contract awards to shift and cause our results of operations to vary between periods. in limited circumstances, we may continue to work without funding, and use our funds, in order to meet our customer desired delivery dates for products or services. such funds could be at risk if the u.s. government does not provide authorization and additional funding to our programs. we are subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations. our business and our reputation could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with these laws. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of u.s. government contracts. government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and impose certain risks and costs on our business. a violation of specific laws and regulations could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, debarment from bidding on contracts, loss of our ability to export products or services, and civil or criminal investigations or proceedings. 10 table of contents in some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are different than those typically found in commercial transactions. for example, the u.s. government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts either at its convenience or for default based on performance. upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process, and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. upon termination for convenience of a cost-reimbursable contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. allowable costs would include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. the amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. we attempt to ensure that adequate funds are available by notifying the customer when its estimated costs, including those associated with a possible termination for convenience, approach levels specified as being allotted to its programs. as funds are typically appropriated on a fiscal-year basis and as the costs of a termination for convenience may exceed the costs of continuing a program in a given fiscal year, occasionally programs do not have sufficient funds appropriated to cover the termination costs were the government to terminate them for convenience. under such circumstances, the u.s. government could assert that it is not required to appropriate additional funding. a termination arising out of our default may expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, notwithstanding the quality of our services as a subcontractor. in the case of termination for default, the u.s. government could make claims to reduce the contract value or recover its procurement costs and could assess other special penalties. however, under such circumstances we have rights and remedial actions under laws and federal acquisition regulations (far). in addition, certain of our u.s. government contracts span one or more base years and multiple option years. the u.s. government generally has the right not to exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period for various reasons. however, the u.s. government may exercise option periods, even for contracts for which it is expected that our costs may exceed the contract price or ceiling. u.s. government agencies, including the defense contract audit agency, the defense contract management agency (dcma), and various agency inspectors general, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, its cost structure, its business systems, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. we have unaudited and/or unsettled incurred cost claims related to past years, which places risk on our ability to issue final billings on contracts for which authorized and appropriated funds may be expiring. certain deficiencies identified during government audits of contractor business systems may result in the government withholding payments on receivables for certain contract types such as cost-reimbursable contracts and fixed-price incentive-fee contracts. withholds are capped at 5% of billings when deficiencies impact a single business system and 10% when deficiencies impact multiple systems, and are typically reduced to 2% after the contractor corrective action plan has been accepted and progress to implement the corrective actions has been demonstrated. such deficiencies have not impacted our internal control over financial reporting. for example, the u.s. government is currently withholding certain funds on receivables for the f-35 program due to the dcma prior withdrawal of its validation and determination of compliance of the earned value management systems at our fort worth, texas location. in 2012, the dcma conducted a compliance review and concluded that although we have made notable progress toward compliance, additional corrective actions are necessary to achieve full compliance. if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. similar government oversight exists in most other countries where we conduct business. 11 table of contents increased competition and bid protests in a budget-constrained environment may make it more difficult to maintain our financial performance. as a leader in defense and global security, we have a large number of programs for which we are the incumbent contractor. a substantial portion of our business is awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government increasingly has relied upon competitive contract award types, including indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, gsa schedule, and other multi-award contracts, which has the potential to create pricing pressure and increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids and proposals. the competitive bidding process entails substantial costs and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. following award, we may encounter significant expenses, delays, contract modifications, or even loss of the contract if our competitors protest or challenge contracts that are awarded to us. multi-award contracts require that we make sustained efforts to obtain task orders under the contract. we are facing increased competition, particularly in information technology and cyber security at our information systems &amp; global solutions business segment, from non-traditional competitors outside of the aerospace and defense industry. at the same time, our customers are facing budget constraints, trying to do more with less by cutting costs, identifying more affordable solutions, and reducing product development cycles. to remain competitive, we consistently must provide superior performance, advanced technology solutions, and service at an affordable cost and with the agility that our customers require to satisfy their mission objectives. international sales may pose different risks. in 2012, our sales to international customers accounted for 17% of our total consolidated net sales. as a company, we have a strategy to grow international sales over the next several years, inclusive of sales of f-35 aircraft to our international partners and other countries. international sales are subject to numerous political and economic factors, regulatory requirements, significant competition, and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. our exposures to such risks may increase if our international sales grow as we anticipate. our international business is conducted through foreign military sales (fms) contracted through the u.s. government or direct commercial sales (dcs) with international customers. in 2012, approximately half of our sales to international customers were fms while the other half were dcs. these transaction types differ as fms transactions represent sales by the u.s. government to other governments and our contract with the u.s. government is subject to far. by contrast, dcs transactions represent sales by us directly to another government or international customer. all sales to international customers are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, taxation, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act, and certain other anti-corruption laws, and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. we frequently team with international subcontractors and suppliers who are also exposed to similar risks. while we have stringent policies in place to comply with such laws and regulations, failure by us, our employees, or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, including suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on us. while international sales, whether contracted as fms or dcs, present risks that are different, and potentially greater, than those encountered in our domestic business, dcs may impose even greater risks as such transactions involve commercial relationships with parties with whom we have less familiarity and where there may be significant cultural differences. additionally, international procurement rules and regulations, contract laws and regulations, and contractual terms differ from those in the u.s., are less familiar to us, may be interpreted differently by foreign courts, are officially documented in the local language and, therefore, potentially subject to errors in translation, and frequently have terms less favorable to us than the far. export and import, tax, and currency risk may also be increased for dcs transactions. our international business is highly sensitive to changes in regulations, political environments, or security risks may affect our ability to conduct business in foreign markets, including those regarding investment, procurement, taxation, and repatriation of earnings. our international business may also be impacted by changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets and may be further impacted by global economic conditions and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. sales of military products are also affected by defense budgets (both in the u.s. and abroad) and u.s. foreign policy. in international sales, we face substantial competition from both domestic manufacturers and foreign manufacturers whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies, and other assistance for their products. additionally, the timing of orders from our international customers can be less predictable than for our domestic customers and may lead to fluctuations in the amount reported each year for our international sales. 12 table of contents in conjunction with defense procurements, some international customers require contractors to provide additional incentives or to comply with industrial cooperation regulations, including entering into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements. offset agreements may require in-country purchases, technology transfers, local manufacturing support, and financial support projects as an incentive, or as a condition to a contract award. in some countries, these offset agreements may require the establishment of a joint venture with a local company, which must control the venture. in these and other situations, lockheed martin could be liable for violations of law for actions taken by these entities such as laws related to anti-corruption, import and export, anti-boycott restrictions, or local laws with which we are not familiar. offset agreements generally extend over several years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements which are typically subjective. our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing, and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. failure of some of these products and services could result in extensive loss of life or property damage. accordingly, we also may incur liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including combat and air mobility aircraft, missile and space systems, command and control systems, air traffic control management systems, cyber security, homeland security, and training programs. in some, but not all circumstances, we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers, either through u.s. government indemnifications under public law 85-804, qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, contractual provisions, or otherwise. the amount of insurance coverage that we maintain may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, existing coverage may be cancelled while we remain exposed to the risk, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an accident, failure of our products or services, or other incident, or liability arising from our products and services in excess of any indemnity and our insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or not obtained) could adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows, or operating results. any accident, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. it also could affect the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. our profitability and cash flow may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs, our performance, our ability to control costs, and evolving u.s. government procurement policies. our profitability and cash flow may vary materially depending on the types of long-term government contracts undertaken, the nature of the products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees is finally determined (particularly under award and incentive-fee contracts). our backlog includes a variety of contract types which are intended to address changing risk and reward profiles as a program matures. contract types include cost-reimbursable, fixed-price incentive-fee, fixed-price, and time-and-materials contracts. contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges are typically cost-reimbursable. under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. in these cases, the associated financial risks primarily relate to a reduction in fees, and the program could be cancelled if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. other contracts in backlog are for the transition from development to production (e.g., low-rate initial production (lrip)), which includes the challenge of starting and stabilizing a manufacturing production and test line while the final design is being validated. these generally are cost-reimbursable or fixed-price incentive-fee contracts. under a fixed-price incentive-fee contract, the allowable costs incurred are eligible for reimbursement, but are subject to a cost-share arrangement, which affects profitability. generally, if our costs exceed the contract target cost or are not allowable under the applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. there are also contracts for production as well as operations and maintenance of the delivered products that have the challenge of achieving a stable production and delivery rate, while maintaining operability of the product after delivery. these contracts are mainly fixed-price, although some operations and maintenance contracts are time and materials-type. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price despite the actual costs we incur. we have to absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. 13 table of contents the failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements may result in reduced fees or losses and affect our financial performance in that period. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, our operating results could be adversely affected, particularly if we are unable to justify an increase in contract value to our customers. cost overruns or the failure to perform on existing programs also may adversely affect our ability to retain existing programs and win future contract awards. the u.s. government is currently pursuing and implementing policies that could negatively impact our profitability. changes in procurement policy favoring more incentive-based fee arrangements, different award fee criteria, or government contract negotiation offers that indicate what our costs should be may affect the predictability of our profit rates. our customers are under pressures that may result in a change in contract types referenced above earlier in program maturity than is traditional. an example of this is the use of fixed-price incentive-fee contracts for the lrip 4 and lrip 5 contracts on the f-35 program while the development contract is running concurrently. our customers may also pursue non-traditional contract provisions in negotiation of contracts. for example, changes resulting from the f-35 development contract may need to be implemented on the production contracts, a concept referred to as concurrency, which may require us to pay for a portion of the concurrency costs. other examples include, but are not limited to, the government in certain circumstances requiring that bid and proposal costs be included in general and administrative costs, rather than charged directly to contracts, and potentially lowering the cap on the recoverability of executive compensation. other policies could negatively impact our working capital and cash flow. for example, the government has expressed a preference for requiring progress payment provisions on new fixed-price contracts, which if implemented, delays our ability to recover a significant amount of costs incurred on a contract and thus affects the timing of our cash flows. we are the prime contractor on most of our contracts and if our subcontractors, suppliers, or teaming agreement or joint venture partners fail to perform their obligations, our performance and our ability to win future business could be harmed. most of our contracts involve subcontracts or teaming arrangements with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. we also sometimes bid on contracts through joint ventures that award work through these entities, rather than through subcontract or teaming arrangements. there is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, teammates, or venture members, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed, the workshare provided to that party, customer concerns about the other party performance, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders, or our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor, teammate, or venture member, or vice versa. in addition, the contracting parties on which we rely may be affected by changes in the economic environment and constraints on available financing to meet their performance requirements or provide needed supplies on a timely basis. a failure by one or more of those contracting parties to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis may affect our ability to perform our obligations. contracting party performance deficiencies may affect our operating results and could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. a default termination could expose us to liability and affect our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. the funding and costs associated with our pension and postretirement medical plans are dependent on economic factors such as discount rates and long-term rates of return on our plan assets as well as other actuarial assumptions which may cause our earnings, cash flows, and stockholders equity to fluctuate significantly from year to year. many of our employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans, and we provide certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees. the impact of these plans on our u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap) earnings may be volatile in that the amount of expense we record for our postretirement benefit plans may materially change from year to year because those calculations are sensitive to funding levels as well as changes in several key economic assumptions, including interest rates, rates of return on plan assets, and other actuarial assumptions including expected rates of increase in future compensation levels, employee turnover and mortality, as well as the timing of funding. changes in these factors also affect our plan funding, cash flow, earnings, and stockholders equity. in addition, the funding of our plans and recovery of costs on our contracts, as described below, may also be subject to changes caused by legislative or regulatory actions. with regard to cash flow, in the past few years we have made substantial cash contributions to our plans in excess of the amounts required by the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa) and pension protection act (ppa). we generally are able to recover these costs related to our plans as allowable costs on our u.s. government contracts, including fms, but there are delays between when we contribute cash to the plans under pension funding rules and recover it under government cost accounting rules. effective february 2012, the cost accounting rules were revised to harmonize the 14 table of contents measurement and period assignment of the pension cost allocable to government contracts with the ppa (cas harmonization). the cost impact of cas harmonization will be phased in beginning in 2013 with the goal of better aligning the cas cost and erisa funding requirements being fully achieved in 2017. for more information on how these factors could impact earnings, financial position, cash flow and stockholders equity, see critical accounting policies postretirement benefit plans in management discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations and note 9 postretirement plans of our consolidated financial statements. if we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions successfully, our financial results, business, and future prospects could be harmed. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets, and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, and equity investments. we seek to identify acquisition or investment opportunities that will expand or complement our existing products and services, or customer base, at attractive valuations. we often compete with others for the same opportunities. to be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate transaction terms, complete and close complex transactions, and manage post-closing matters (e.g., integrate acquired companies and employees and realize anticipated operating synergies) efficiently and effectively. acquisition, divestiture, joint venture, and investment transactions often require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. unidentified pre-closing liabilities could affect our future financial results. joint ventures or equity investments operate under shared control with other parties. under the equity method of accounting for nonconsolidated joint ventures and investments, we recognize our share of the operating results of these ventures in our results of operations. our operating results may be affected by the performance of businesses over which we do not exercise control. the most significant impact of our equity investments is in our space systems business segment where approximately 24% of its 2012 operating profit was derived from its equity investments in three joint ventures (see space systems above). management closely monitors the results of operations and cash flows generated by these investees. our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face cyber threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, and terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures, natural disasters, or public health crises. we routinely experience cyber security threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to our company sensitive information, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. we may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage as a contractual requirement. prior cyber attacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results, and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are adequate. the threats we face vary from attacks common to most industries to more advanced and persistent, highly organized adversaries who target us because we protect national security information. if we are unable to protect sensitive information, our customers or governmental authorities could question the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures. due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. although we work cooperatively with our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, joint venture partners, and acquisitions to seek to minimize the impact of cyber threats, other security threats or business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these entities, which may affect the security of our information. these entities have varying levels of cyber security expertise and safeguards and their relationships with government contractors, such as lockheed martin, may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber threats we face. the costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to our customers, loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts or other intellectual property, early obsolescence of our products and services, our future financial results, our reputation or our stock price. 15 table of contents environmental costs could affect our future earnings as well as the affordability of our products and services. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. we are involved in environmental responses at some of our facilities and former facilities, and at third-party sites not owned by us where we have been designated a potentially responsible party by the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) or by a state agency. in addition, we could be affected by future regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources, and by other actions commonly referred to as green initiatives. we have an ongoing comprehensive program to reduce the effects of our operations on the environment. we manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the government. at such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs historically have been the responsibility of the government, and we have relied, and continue to rely with respect to past practices, upon government funding to pay such costs. although the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance typically are borne by either the government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. some environmental laws include criminal provisions. an environmental law conviction could affect our ability to be awarded future, or perform existing, u.s. government contracts. we have incurred and will continue to incur liabilities under various federal, state, local, and foreign statutes for environmental protection and remediation. the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. among the variables management must assess in evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites generally are the status of site assessment, extent of the contamination, impacts on natural resources, changing cost estimates, evolution of technologies used to remediate the site, and continually evolving governmental environmental standards and cost allowability issues. both the epa and the california office of environmental health hazard assessment announced plans in january 2011 to regulate two chemicals, perchlorate and hexavalent chromium, to levels in drinking water that are expected to be substantially lower than the existing public health goals or standards established in california. the rulemaking processes are lengthy and may take years to complete. if substantially lower standards are adopted, we would expect a material increase in our estimates for environmental liabilities and the related assets for the portion of the increased costs that are probable of future recovery in the pricing of our products and services for the u.s. government. the amount that would be allocable to our non-u.s. government contracts or that is determined to be unallowable for pricing under u.s. government contracts would be expensed, which may have a material effect on our earnings in any particular interim reporting period. for information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent probable and estimable, see critical accounting policies environmental matters in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 12 legal proceedings, commitments, and contingencies of our consolidated financial statements. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by gaap, we estimate loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. for a description of our current legal proceedings, see item 3 legal proceedings and note 12 legal proceedings, commitments, and contingencies of our consolidated financial statements. in order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees and manage leadership transitions effectively. our business has a continuing need to attract large numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support the growth of the enterprise and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. we increasingly compete with commercial technology companies outside of the aerospace and defense industry for qualified technical and scientific positions as the number of qualified domestic engineers is decreasing. to the extent that these companies grow faster than our industry, or face fewer cost and product pricing constraints, they may be able to offer higher compensation to job candidates or our existing employees. to the extent that we lose experienced personnel through wage competition, normal attrition, or specific actions such as workforce reductions, we must successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge from those individuals. 16 table of contents we also must manage leadership development and succession planning throughout our business and have processes in place for management transition, which was critical during our recent executive management changes. to the extent that we are unable to attract, develop, retain, and protect leadership talent successfully, we could experience business disruptions and impair our ability to achieve business objectives. historically, where employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. this does not assure, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to negotiate renewals of our existing collective bargaining agreements when they expire. if we were unsuccessful in those efforts, there is the potential that we could incur unanticipated delays or expenses in the programs affected by any resulting work stoppages. our estimates and projections may prove to be inaccurate. the accounting for some of our most significant activities is based on judgments and estimates, which are complex and subject to many variables. for example, accounting for sales using the percentage-of-completion method requires that we assess risks and make assumptions regarding schedule, cost, technical, and performance issues for each of our thousands of contracts, many of which are long-term in nature. another example is the $10.4 billion of goodwill assets recorded on our balance sheet as of december 31, 2012 from previous acquisitions over time, which represent greater than 25% of our total assets, and are subject to annual impairment testing. if we experience changes or factors arise that negatively affect the expected cash flows of a reporting unit, we may be required to write off all or a portion of the related goodwill assets. changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, including possibly with retroactive effect, and audits by tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our tax expense and affect profitability and cash flows. for example, recent proposals to lower the u.s. corporate income tax rate would require us to reduce our net deferred tax assets upon enactment of the related tax legislation, with a corresponding material, one-time increase to income tax expense, but our income tax expense and payments would be materially reduced in subsequent years. actual financial results could differ from our judgments and estimates. refer to critical accounting policies in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and note 1 significant accounting policies of our consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of our significant accounting policies and use of estimates. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we maintain active relationships with a broad and diverse group of domestic and international financial institutions. we believe that they provide us with sufficient access to the general and trade credit we require to conduct our business. we continue to closely monitor the financial market environment and actively manage counterparty exposure to minimize the potential impact from adverse developments with any single credit provider while ensuring availability of, and access to, sufficient credit resources. our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and market prices on certain equity securities. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate long-term debt. as bond yields are at historical lows and move inversely to bond prices, the estimated fair value of our outstanding debt was $8.2 billion at december 31, 2012, and the outstanding principal amount was $7.2 billion, excluding unamortized discounts of $892 million. a 10% change in the level of interest rates would not have a material impact on the fair value of our outstanding debt at december 31, 2012. we use derivative instruments principally to reduce our exposure to market risks from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. we do not enter into or hold derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes. we transact business globally and are subject to risks associated with changing foreign currency exchange rates. we enter into foreign currency hedges such as forward and option contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the british pound sterling and the canadian dollar. these contracts hedge forecasted foreign currency transactions in order to mitigate fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we designate foreign currency hedges as cash flow hedges. we also are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through our borrowing activities. for fixed rate borrowings, we may use variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings indexed to libor in order to reduce the amount of interest paid. these swaps are designated as fair value hedges. for variable rate borrowings, we may use fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting variable rate borrowings to fixed rate borrowings in order to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes on earnings. these swaps are designated as cash flow hedges. we may also enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting, which are intended to mitigate economic exposures. the classification of gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair values of derivatives is dependent on our intended use of the derivative and its resulting designation. adjustments to reflect changes in fair values of derivatives attributable to the effective portion of hedges are either reflected in earnings and largely offset by corresponding adjustments to the hedged items, or reflected net of income taxes in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are attributable to the ineffective portion of the hedges, or of derivatives that are not considered to be highly effective hedges, if any, are immediately recognized in earnings. the aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts at december 31, 2012 and 2011 was $1.3 billion and $1.7 billion. the aggregate notional amount of our interest rate swap contracts at december 31, 2012 and 2011 was $503 million and $450 million. at december 31, 2012 and 2011, the net fair value of our derivative instruments was not material (note 15). a 10% appreciation or devaluation of the hedged currency as compared to the level of foreign exchange rates for currencies under contract at december 31, 2012 would not have a material impact on the aggregate net fair value of such contracts or our cash flows. we evaluate the credit quality of potential counterparties to derivative transactions and only enter into agreements with those deemed to have acceptable credit risk at the time the agreements are executed. our foreign currency exchange hedge portfolio is diversified across several banks. we periodically monitor changes to counterparty credit quality as well as our concentration of credit exposure to individual counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we maintain a separate trust that includes investments to fund certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans. as of december 31, 2012, investments in the trust totaled $874 million and are reflected at fair value on our balance sheet in other noncurrent assets. the trust holds investments in marketable equity securities and fixed-income securities that are exposed to price changes and changes in interest rates. a portion of the liabilities associated with the deferred compensation plans supported by the trust is also impacted by changes in the market price of our common stock and certain market indices. changes in the value of the liabilities have the effect of partially offsetting the impact of changes in the value of the trust. both the change in the fair value of the trust and the change in the value of the liabilities are recognized on our statements of earnings in other unallocated costs, and were not material for the year ended december 31, 2012. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors. an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. you should carefully consider the following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our common stock or debt securities. we depend heavily on contracts with the u.s. government. we derived 82% of our consolidated net sales from the u.s. government in 2013, including 61% from the department of defense (dod). we expect to continue to derive most of our sales from work performed under u.s. government contracts. those contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. consequently, contracts are often partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of funds obligated on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs unless and until additional funds are obligated to the contract. 9 table of contents the programs in which we participate must compete with other programs and policy imperatives for consideration during the budget and appropriation process. concerns about increased deficit spending, along with continued economic challenges, continue to place pressure on u.s. and international customer budgets. while we believe that our programs are well aligned with national defense and other priorities, shifts in domestic and international spending and tax policy, changes in security, defense, and intelligence priorities, the affordability of our products and services, general economic conditions and developments, and other factors may affect a decision to fund or the level of funding for existing or proposed programs. the budget control act of 2011 (budget control act) established limits on discretionary spending, which provided for reductions to planned defense spending of $487 billion over a 10 year period that began with government fiscal year (gfy) 2012 (a u.s. government fiscal year starts on october 1 and ends on september 30). the budget control act also provided for additional automatic spending reductions, known as sequestration, which went into effect on march 1, 2013, that would reduce planned defense spending by another $500 billion over a nine-year period that began in gfy 2013. these additional spending reductions are arbitrary as they would be applied across-the-board to numerous programs and contracts without regard to national priorities. while the defense budget will sustain the largest single reduction, other civil agencies and programs are also impacted by significant spending reductions. in light of the budget control act and deficit reduction pressures, it is likely that discretionary spending by the u.s. government will remain constrained for a number of years. for gfy 2013, which ended on september 30, 2013, sequestration resulted in a $37 billion reduction to the defense budget in addition to reductions as a result of the discretionary spending limits already imposed under the budget control act. the impacts of sequestration in gfy 2013 were less than originally expected due to congressional actions that reduced the cuts as well as the dod ability to allocate a portion of the reductions to prior year unobligated balances and multi-year investment appropriations. accordingly, we have experienced minimal impacts to date. in december 2013, congress and the administration enacted the bipartisan budget act of 2013 (bipartisan budget act). notably, the bipartisan budget act increased the limits on discretionary spending for gfy 2014 and gfy 2015 imposed by the budget control act, among other fiscal changes. in particular, the bipartisan budget act allows for approximately $63 billion of additional funding, including approximately $22 billion and $9 billion for defense spending during gfy 2014 and gfy 2015, respectively, and similar amounts for nondefense programs over the same period. the revised defense spending limits are set at approximately $520 billion for gfy 2014 and approximately $521 billion for gfy 2015. this agreement allows for more certainty in the budget planning process and provides the dod the flexibility to better address its priorities. however, the bipartisan budget act retains the lower spending limits, including the across-the-board spending reduction methodology, for gfys 2016 through 2021 as provided for in the budget control act. as a result, there remains uncertainty regarding how sequester cuts beyond gfy 2015 will be applied as the dod and other agencies may have significantly less flexibility regarding how to allocate cuts in future years. while we have not yet seen the specific budget allocations by program, we continue to believe that our portfolio of products will continue to be well supported in a strategically focused allocation of budget resources. while the recent budget actions provide a more measured and strategic approach to addressing the u.s. government fiscal challenges, sequestration remains a long-term concern. if not further modified, sequestration could have significant negative impacts on our industry and company in future periods. there may be disruption of ongoing programs, impacts to our supply chain, contractual actions (including partial or complete terminations), potential facilities closures, and thousands of personnel reductions across the industry that will severely impact advanced manufacturing operations and engineering expertise, and accelerate the loss of skills and knowledge. sequestration, or other budgetary cuts in lieu of sequestration, could have a material negative effect on our company as would any failure to address issues raised by the debt ceiling. additionally, we are seeking to lessen our dependence on contracts with the u.s. government by focusing on expanding into adjacent markets close to our core capabilities and growing international sales but may not be successful in this strategy. in response to continued declines in u.s. government spending as well as the rapidly changing competitive and economic landscape, in november 2013 we announced a plan to close and consolidate several of our facilities and reduce our workforce by approximately 4,000 positions. we expect these facility closures and workforce reductions will be substantially complete by the middle of 2015; see more information in note 2 restructuring charges of our consolidated financial statements. further actions as described above may be necessary in future periods and could result in severance and other charges that may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. for more information regarding u.s. government budget pressures, see industry considerations in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. under such conditions, large or complex programs, which consist of multiple contracts and phases, are potentially subject to increased scrutiny. our largest program, the f-35, represented 16% of our total consolidated net sales in 2013, and is expected to represent a higher percentage of our sales in future years. a decision to cut spending or reduce planned orders 10 table of contents could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. for more information regarding the f-35 program, see status of the f-35 program in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. based upon our diverse range of defense, homeland security, and information technology products and services, we believe that this makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term effect on our business. however, termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. we could incur expenses beyond those that would be reimbursed if one or more of our existing contracts were terminated for convenience due to lack of funding or other reasons. potential changes in funding priorities may afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on, or replacement programs. while we would expect to compete, and be well positioned as the incumbent on existing programs, we may not be successful, or the replacement programs may be funded at lower levels. on january 17, 2014, the u.s. government passed its gfy 2014 budget to finance all activities through september 30, 2014, the end of its current fiscal year, after operating under continuing resolution temporary funding measures from october 1, 2013 to january 18, 2014. the budget provides discretionary defense spending at levels consistent with the planned defense spending limits in the bipartisan budget act and eliminated much of the uncertainty and inefficiency in procuring products and services under the continuing resolution. in years when the u.s. government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, government operations typically are funded through a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. when the u.s. government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in contract awards due to lack of funding. historically, this has not had a material effect on our business. should a continuing resolution be used to fund u.s. government operations after gfy 2014 or decisions regarding sequestration remain pending, it may cause additional government contract awards to be delayed, canceled, or funded at lower levels and cause our results of operations to vary between periods. in some circumstances, we may continue to work without funding, and use our funds, in order to meet our customer desired delivery dates for products or services. such funds could be at risk if the u.s. government does not provide authorization and additional funding to our programs. we are subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations. our business and our reputation could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with these laws. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of u.s. government contracts. government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and impose certain risks and costs on our business. a violation of specific laws and regulations could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, suspension or debarment from bidding on or being awarded contracts, loss of our ability to export products or services, and civil or criminal investigations or proceedings. in some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are different than those typically found in commercial transactions. for example, the u.s. government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts either at its convenience or for default based on our performance. upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process, and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. upon termination for convenience of a cost-reimbursable contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. allowable costs would include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. the amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. we attempt to ensure that adequate funds are available by notifying the customer when its estimated costs, including those associated with a possible termination for convenience, approach levels specified as being allotted to its programs. as funds are typically appropriated on a fiscal-year basis and as the costs of a termination for convenience may exceed the costs of continuing a program in a given fiscal year, occasionally programs do not have sufficient funds appropriated to cover the termination costs were the government to terminate them for convenience. under such circumstances, the u.s. government could assert that it is not required to appropriate additional funding. a termination arising out of our default may expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, notwithstanding the quality of our services as a subcontractor. in the case of termination for default, the u.s. government could make claims to reduce the contract value or recover its procurement costs and could assess other special penalties. however, under such circumstances we have rights and remedial actions under laws and the federal acquisition regulations (far). 11 table of contents in addition, certain of our u.s. government contracts span one or more base years and multiple option years. the u.s. government generally has the right not to exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period for various reasons. however, the u.s. government may exercise option periods, even for contracts for which it is expected that our costs may exceed the contract price or ceiling. u.s. government agencies, including the defense contract audit agency, the defense contract management agency, and various agency inspectors general, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, its cost structure, its business systems, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. we have unaudited and/or unsettled incurred cost claims related to past years, which places risk on our ability to issue final billings on contracts for which authorized and appropriated funds may be expiring. certain deficiencies identified during government audits of contractor business systems may result in the government withholding payments on our billings. such deficiencies have not impacted our internal control over financial reporting. withholding payments on billings are capped at 5% of billings when deficiencies impact a single business system and 10% when deficiencies impact multiple systems. such withholdings are typically reduced to 2% after the contractor corrective action plan has been accepted and progress to implement the corrective actions has been demonstrated, and are withdrawn upon satisfactory completion and verification of the corrective action plan. if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or terminations, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, penalties, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. similar government oversight exists in most other countries where we conduct business. our profitability and cash flow may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs, our performance, our ability to control costs, and evolving u.s. government procurement policies. our profitability and cash flow may vary materially depending on the types of long-term government contracts undertaken, the nature of the products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees is determined, particularly under award and incentive-fee contracts. our backlog includes a variety of contract types which are intended to address changing risk and reward profiles as a program matures. contract types include cost-reimbursable, fixed-price incentive-fee, fixed-price, and time-and-materials contracts. contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges are typically cost-reimbursable. under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. in these cases, the associated financial risks primarily relate to a reduction in fees, and the program could be cancelled if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. other contracts in backlog are for the transition from development to production (e.g., low-rate initial production (lrip) contracts), which includes the challenge of starting and stabilizing a manufacturing production and test line while the final design is being validated. these generally are cost-reimbursable or fixed-price incentive-fee contracts. under a fixed-price incentive-fee contract, the allowable costs incurred are eligible for reimbursement, but are subject to a cost-share arrangement, which affects profitability. generally, if our costs exceed the contract target cost or are not allowable under the applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. there are also contracts for production as well as operations and maintenance of the delivered products that have the challenge of achieving a stable production and delivery rate, while maintaining operability of the product after delivery. these contracts are mainly fixed-price, although some operations and maintenance contracts are time-and-materials type. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price regardless of the actual costs we incur. we have to absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. the failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements may result in reduced fees or losses and affect our financial performance in that period. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, our operating results could be adversely affected, particularly if we are unable to justify an increase in contract value to our customers. cost overruns or the failure to perform on existing programs also may adversely affect our ability to retain existing programs and win future contract awards. 12 table of contents the u.s. government is currently pursuing and implementing policies that could negatively impact our profitability. changes in procurement policy favoring more incentive-based fee arrangements, different award fee criteria, or government contract negotiation offers that indicate what our costs should be may affect the predictability of our profit rates. our customers are subject to pressures that may result in a change in contract types referenced above earlier in a program maturity than is traditional. an example of this is the use of fixed-price incentive-fee contracts for recent lrip contracts on the f-35 program while the development contract is being performed concurrently. our customers may also pursue non-traditional contract provisions in negotiation of contracts. for example, changes resulting from the f-35 development contract may need to be implemented on the production contracts, a concept referred to as concurrency, which may require us to pay for a portion of the concurrency costs. other examples include, but are not limited to, the u.s. government in certain circumstances requiring that bid and proposal costs be included in general and administrative costs, rather than charged directly to contracts, and the u.s. government enacting legislation that will decrease the level of allowable employee compensation, which will reduce our operating profit. other policies could negatively impact our working capital and cash flow. for example, the government has expressed a preference for requiring progress payments rather than performance based payments on new fixed-price contracts, which if implemented, delays our ability to recover a significant amount of costs incurred on a contract and thus affects the timing of our cash flows. increased competition and bid protests in a budget-constrained environment may make it more difficult to maintain our financial performance. we are facing increased competition, particularly in information technology and cyber security at our information systems &amp; global solutions business segment, from non-traditional competitors outside of the aerospace and defense industry, in addition to our customers determining to source work internally rather than hiring a contractor. at the same time, our customers are facing budget constraints, trying to do more with less by cutting costs, identifying more affordable solutions, and reducing product development cycles. in international sales, we face substantial competition from both domestic manufacturers and foreign manufacturers whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies, and other assistance for their products. additionally, our competitors are also focusing on increasing their international sales to partially mitigate the effect of reduced u.s. government budgets. to remain competitive, we consistently must provide superior performance, advanced technology solutions, and service at an affordable cost and with the agility that our customers require to satisfy their mission objectives. as a leader in defense and global security, we have a large number of programs for which we are the incumbent contractor. a substantial portion of our business is awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government increasingly has relied upon competitive contract award types, including indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, gsa schedule, and other multi-award contracts, which has the potential to create pricing pressure and increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids and proposals. in addition, multi-award contracts require that we make sustained efforts to obtain task orders under the contract. the competitive bidding process entails substantial costs and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. following award, we may encounter significant expenses, delays, contract modifications, or bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. bid protests could result in significant expenses to us, contract modifications or even loss of the contract award. even where a bid protest does not result in the loss of a contract award, the resolution can extend the time until the contract activity can begin and, therefore, delay our recognizing sales. we are the prime contractor on most of our contracts and if our subcontractors, suppliers, or teaming agreement or venture partners fail to perform their obligations, our performance and our ability to win future business could be harmed. for most of our contracts we rely on other companies to provide materials, major components, and products, and to perform a portion of the services that we provide to our customers. such arrangements may involve subcontracts, teaming arrangements, ventures, or supply agreements with other companies upon which we rely (contracting parties). there is a risk that we may have disputes with our contracting parties, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed, the workshare provided to that party, customer concerns about the other party performance, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders, or our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor, teammate, or venture partner, or vice versa. in addition, changes in the economic environment, including defense budgets and constraints on available financing, may adversely affect the financial stability of our contracting parties and their ability to meet their performance requirements or to provide needed supplies on a timely basis. a failure by one or more of our contracting parties to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis may affect our ability to perform 13 table of contents our obligations and require that we transition the work to other companies. contracting party performance deficiencies may affect our operating results and could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. a default termination could expose us to liability and affect our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. additionally, our efforts to increase the efficiency of our operations and improve the affordability of our products and services could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain suppliers. international sales may pose different risks. in 2013, 17% of our net sales were from international customers. we have a strategy to grow international sales over the next several years, inclusive of sales of f-35 aircraft to our international partners and other countries. international sales are subject to numerous political and economic factors, regulatory requirements, significant competition, and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. our exposure to such risks may increase if our international sales grow as we anticipate. our international business is conducted through foreign military sales (fms) contracted through the u.s. government or direct commercial sales (dcs) with international customers. in 2013, approximately half of our sales to international customers were fms while the other half were dcs. these transaction types differ as fms transactions represent sales by the u.s. government to international governments and our contract with the u.s. government is subject to far. by contrast, dcs transactions represent sales by us directly to another government or international customer. all sales to international customers are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, taxation, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws, and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. we frequently team with international subcontractors and suppliers who are also exposed to similar risks. while we have stringent policies in place to comply with such laws and regulations, failure by us, our employees, or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, including suspension, proposed debarment, or debarment from bidding for or performing government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on us. while international sales, whether contracted as fms or dcs, present risks that are different, and potentially greater, than those encountered in our domestic business, dcs with international customers may impose even greater risks as such transactions involve commercial relationships with parties with whom we have less familiarity and where there may be significant cultural differences. additionally, international procurement rules and regulations, contract laws and regulations, and contractual terms differ from those in the u.s., are less familiar to us, may be interpreted differently by foreign courts, are officially documented in the local language and, therefore, potentially subject to errors in translation, and frequently have terms less favorable to us than the far. export and import, tax, and currency risk may also be increased for dcs with international customers. while these risks are potentially greater than those encountered in our domestic business, our profit margins are typically higher on dcs with international customers. our international business is highly sensitive to changes in regulations, political environments, or security risks that may affect our ability to conduct business outside of the u.s., including those regarding investment, procurement, taxation, and repatriation of earnings. our international business may also be impacted by changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets and may be further impacted by global economic conditions and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. sales of military products are also affected by defense budgets and u.s. foreign policy. additionally, the timing of orders from our international customers can be less predictable than for our domestic customers and may lead to fluctuations in the amount reported each year for our international sales. in conjunction with defense procurements, some international customers require contractors to provide additional incentives or to comply with industrial cooperation regulations, including entering into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements. offset agreements may require in-country purchases, technology transfers, local manufacturing support, and financial support projects as an incentive, or as a condition to a contract award. in some countries, these offset agreements may require the establishment of a venture with a local company, which must control the venture. in these and other situations, lockheed martin could be liable for violations of law for actions taken by these entities such as laws related to anti-corruption, import and export, anti-boycott restrictions, or local laws with which we are not familiar. offset agreements generally extend over several years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements which are typically subjective and can be outside our control. our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing, and manufacturing advanced defense and technology products and systems. new technologies may be untested or unproven. failure of some of these products and 14 table of contents services could result in extensive loss of life or property damage. accordingly, we also may incur liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including combat and air mobility aircraft, missile and space systems, command and control systems, air traffic control management systems, cyber security, homeland security, and training programs. in some, but not all circumstances, we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers, either through u.s. government indemnifications under public law 85-804, qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, contractual provisions, or otherwise. we endeavor to obtain insurance coverage from established insurance carriers to cover these risks and liabilities. the amount of insurance coverage that we maintain may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, existing coverage may be cancelled while we remain exposed to the risk, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. for example, we are limited in the amount of insurance we can obtain to cover certain natural hazards such as earthquakes, and we have significant operations in geographic areas prone to this risk, such as sunnyvale, california. even if insurance coverage is available, we may not be able to obtain it at a price or on terms acceptable to us. additionally, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage terms or the insolvency of one or more of our insurance carriers may significantly affect the amount or timing of our cash flows. substantial costs resulting from an accident, failure of or defect in our products or services, natural catastrophe, or other incident, or liability arising from our products and services in excess of any legal protection, indemnity and our insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or not obtained) could adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows, or operating results. any accident or failure of or defect in our products or services, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. it also could affect the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. pension funding and costs are dependent on several economic assumptions which if changed may cause our future earnings and cash flow to fluctuate significantly as well as affect the affordability of our products and services. many of our employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans, and we provide certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees. the impact of these plans on our u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap) earnings may be volatile in that the amount of expense we record for our postretirement benefit plans may materially change from year to year because those calculations are sensitive to funding levels as well as changes in several key economic assumptions, including interest rates, rates of return on plan assets, and other actuarial assumptions including participant mortality estimates, expected rates of increase in future compensation levels and employee turnover. changes in these factors also affect our plan funding, cash flow, and stockholders equity. in addition, the funding of our plans and recovery of costs on our contracts, as described below, may also be subject to changes caused by legislative or regulatory actions. with regard to cash flow, in the past few years we have made substantial cash contributions to our plans in excess of the amounts required by the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), as amended by the pension protection act of 2006 (ppa). we generally are able to recover these contributions related to our plans as allowable costs on our u.s. government contracts, including fms, but there is a lag between when we contribute cash to our plans under pension funding rules and recover it under u.s. government cost accounting standards (cas). effective february 2012, the cas rules were revised to harmonize the measurement and period assignment of the pension cost allocable to government contracts with the ppa (cas harmonization). in 2013, the cost impact of cas harmonization started being phased in with the goal of better aligning the cas cost and erisa funding requirements being fully achieved in 2017. for more information on how these factors could impact earnings, financial position, cash flow and stockholders equity, see critical accounting policies postretirement benefit plans in management discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations and note 10 postretirement plans of our consolidated financial statements. if we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions successfully, our financial results, business, and future prospects could be harmed. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets, and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, ventures, and equity investments. we seek to identify acquisition or investment opportunities that will expand or complement our existing products and services, or customer base, at attractive valuations. we often compete with others for the same opportunities. to be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate transaction terms, complete and close complex transactions, integrate acquired companies and employees, and realize anticipated operating synergies efficiently and effectively. 15 table of contents acquisition, divestiture, venture, and investment transactions often require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. unidentified pre-closing liabilities could affect our future financial results. ventures or equity investments operate under shared control with other parties. under the equity method of accounting for nonconsolidated ventures and investments, we recognize our share of the operating profit of these ventures in our results of operations. our operating results may be affected by the performance of businesses over which we do not exercise control. the most significant impact of our equity investments is in our space systems business segment where approximately 29% of its 2013 operating profit was derived from its share of earnings from equity method investees. our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face cyber threats, insider threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, and terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures, natural disasters, or public health crises. we routinely experience cyber security threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure and unauthorized attempts to gain access to our company sensitive information, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and venture partners. we may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage as a contractual requirement. prior cyber attacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results, and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are adequate. the threats we face vary from attacks common to most industries to more advanced and persistent, highly organized adversaries who target us because we protect national security information. if we are unable to protect sensitive information, our customers or governmental authorities could question the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures. due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. although we work cooperatively with our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, venture partners, and acquisitions to seek to minimize the impact of cyber threats, other security threats or business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these entities, which may affect the security of our information. these entities have varying levels of cyber security expertise and safeguards and their relationships with government contractors, such as lockheed martin, may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber threats we face. the costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. additionally, some cyber technologies we develop, particularly those related to homeland security, may raise potential liabilities related to intellectual property and civil liberties, including privacy concerns, which may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to our customers, our future financial results, our reputation or our stock price; or such events could result in the loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts or other intellectual property, early obsolescence of our products and services, or contractual penalties. environmental costs could affect our future earnings as well as the affordability of our products and services. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. we are involved in environmental responses at some of our facilities and former facilities, and at third-party sites not owned by us where we have been designated a potentially responsible party by the u.s. environmental protection agency or by a state agency. in addition, we could be affected by future regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources. we have an ongoing comprehensive program to reduce the effects of our operations on the environment. we manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the government. at such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs historically have been the responsibility of the government, and we have relied, and continue to rely with respect to past practices, upon government funding to pay such costs. although the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance typically are borne by either the government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. some environmental laws include criminal provisions. an environmental law conviction could affect our ability to be awarded future, or perform existing, u.s. government contracts. 16 table of contents we have incurred and will continue to incur liabilities under various federal, state, local, and foreign statutes for environmental protection and remediation. the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. among the variables management must assess in evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites generally are the status of site assessment, extent of the contamination, impacts on natural resources, changing cost estimates, evolution of technologies used to remediate the site, and continually evolving governmental environmental standards and cost allowability issues. for information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent probable and estimable, see critical accounting policies environmental matters in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 13 legal proceedings, commitments, and contingencies of our consolidated financial statements. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by gaap, we estimate loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. for a description of our current legal proceedings, see item 3 legal proceedings and note 13 legal proceedings, commitments, and contingencies of our consolidated financial statements. in order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees and manage leadership transitions effectively. our business has a continuing need to attract and retain large numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to meet contract schedules, support the growth of the enterprise, and to replace individuals who have retired or departed for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for skilled personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. we increasingly compete with commercial technology companies outside of the aerospace and defense industry for qualified technical and scientific positions as the number of qualified domestic engineers is decreasing. to the extent that these companies grow faster than our industry, or face fewer cost and product pricing constraints, they may be able to offer higher compensation to job candidates or our existing employees. to the extent that we lose experienced personnel through wage competition, normal attrition (including retirement), or specific actions such as workforce reductions, we must successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge from those individuals. this will become increasingly important as our workforce demographic shifts toward a higher population that is nearing retirement. additionally, we may face issues arising from our efforts to increase the efficiency of our operations and improve the affordability of our products and services, including difficulties associated with moving or consolidating operations, reducing the size of the workforce, attracting and retaining key personnel, and from compliance with our legal obligations, including under federal labor law and any applicable collective bargaining agreements. we also must manage leadership development and succession planning throughout our business and have processes in place for management transition and the transfer of knowledge. to the extent that we are unable to attract, develop, and retain leadership talent successfully, we could experience business disruptions and impair our ability to achieve business objectives. historically, where employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. this does not assure, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to negotiate renewals of our existing collective bargaining agreements when they expire. if we were unsuccessful in those efforts, there is the potential that we could incur unanticipated delays or expenses in the programs affected by any resulting work stoppages. our estimates and projections may prove to be inaccurate. the accounting for some of our most significant activities is based on judgments and estimates, which are complex and subject to many variables. for example, accounting for sales using the percentage-of-completion method requires that we assess risks and make assumptions regarding schedule, cost, technical, and performance issues for each of our thousands of contracts, many of which are long-term in nature. another example is the $10.3 billion of goodwill assets recorded on our balance sheet as of december 31, 2013 from previous acquisitions that were made over time, which represent greater than 25% of our total assets, and are subject to annual impairment testing and more frequent testing upon the occurrence of certain events or significant changes in circumstances that indicate goodwill may be impaired. if we experience changes or factors arise that negatively affect the expected cash flows of a reporting unit, we may be required to write off all or a portion of the 17 table of contents reporting unit related goodwill assets. in 2013, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $195 million, net of state tax benefits. see critical accounting policies - goodwill in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 1 significant accounting policies for more information on this impairment charge. changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, including possibly with retroactive effect, and audits by tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our tax expense and affect profitability and cash flows. for example, proposals to lower the u.s. corporate income tax rate would require us to reduce our net deferred tax assets upon enactment of the related tax legislation, with a corresponding material, one-time increase to income tax expense, but our income tax expense and payments would be materially reduced in subsequent years. actual financial results could differ from our judgments and estimates. refer to critical accounting policies in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and note 1 significant accounting policies of our consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of our significant accounting policies and use of estimates. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we maintain active relationships with a broad and diverse group of domestic and international financial institutions. we believe that they provide us with sufficient access to the general and trade credit we require to conduct our business. we continue to closely monitor the financial market environment and actively manage counterparty exposure to minimize the potential impact from adverse developments with any single credit provider while ensuring availability of, and access to, sufficient credit resources. our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and market prices on certain equity securities. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate long-term debt. the estimated fair value of our outstanding debt was $7.4 billion at december 31, 2013, and the outstanding principal amount was $7.0 billion, excluding unamortized discounts of $882 million. a 10% change in the level of interest rates would not have a material impact on the fair value of our outstanding debt at december 31, 2013. we use derivative instruments principally to reduce our exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we do not enter into or hold derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes. we transact business globally and are subject to risks associated with changing foreign currency exchange rates. we enter into foreign currency hedges such as forward and option contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the british pound sterling and the canadian dollar. these contracts hedge forecasted foreign currency transactions in order to mitigate fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we designate foreign currency hedges as cash flow hedges. we also are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through our borrowing activities. for fixed rate borrowings, we may use variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings indexed to libor in order to reduce the amount of interest paid. these swaps are designated as fair value hedges. for variable rate borrowings, we may use fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting variable rate borrowings to fixed rate borrowings in order to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes on earnings. these swaps are designated as cash flow hedges. we may also enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting, which are intended to mitigate certain economic exposures. the classification of gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair values of derivatives is dependent on our intended use of the derivative and its resulting designation. adjustments to reflect changes in fair values of derivatives attributable to the effective portion of hedges are either reflected in earnings and largely offset by corresponding adjustments to the hedged items, or reflected net of income taxes in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are attributable to the ineffective portion of the hedges, or of derivatives that are not considered to be highly effective hedges, if any, are immediately recognized in earnings. the aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency hedges at december 31, 2013 and 2012 was $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion. the aggregate notional amount of our outstanding interest rate swaps at december 31, 2013 and 2012 was $1.2 billion and $503 million. at december 31, 2013 and 2012, the net fair value of our derivative instruments was not material (note 15). a 10% appreciation or devaluation of the hedged currency as compared to the level of foreign exchange rates for currencies under contract at december 31, 2013 would not have a material impact on the aggregate net fair value of such contracts or our consolidated financial statements. we evaluate the credit quality of potential counterparties to derivative transactions and only enter into agreements with those deemed to have acceptable credit risk at the time the agreements are executed. our foreign currency exchange hedge portfolio is diversified across several banks. we periodically monitor changes to counterparty credit quality as well as our concentration of credit exposure to individual counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we maintain a separate trust that includes investments to fund certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans. as of december 31, 2013, investments in the trust totaled $1.0 billion and are reflected at fair value on our balance sheet in other noncurrent assets. the trust holds investments in marketable equity securities and fixed-income securities that are exposed to price changes and changes in interest rates. a portion of the liabilities associated with the deferred compensation plans supported by the trust is also impacted by changes in the market price of our common stock and certain market indices. changes in the value of the liabilities have the effect of partially offsetting the impact of changes in the value of the trust. both the change in the fair value of the trust and the change in the value of the liabilities are recognized on our statements of earnings in other unallocated costs, and were not material for the year ended december 31, 2013. 54 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors. an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. you should carefully consider the following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our common stock or debt securities. 9 table of contents we depend heavily on contracts with the u.s. government. we derived 79% of our consolidated net sales from the u.s. government in 2014, including 59% from the department of defense. we expect to continue to derive most of our sales from work performed under u.s. government contracts. those contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. consequently, contracts are often partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of funds obligated on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs unless and until additional funds are obligated to the contract. the programs in which we participate must compete with other programs and policy imperatives for consideration during the budget and appropriation process. concerns about increased deficit spending, along with ongoing economic challenges, continue to place pressure on u.s. government budgets. while we believe that our programs are well aligned with national defense and other priorities, shifts in the u.s. and international spending and tax policy, changes in security, defense and intelligence priorities, the affordability of our products and services, general economic conditions and developments and other factors may affect a decision to fund or the level of funding for existing or proposed programs. as discussed within the industry considerations in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the u.s. government continues to face significant deficit reduction pressures and it is likely that discretionary spending by the u.s. government will remain constrained for a number of years. under such conditions, large or complex programs, which consist of multiple contracts and phases, are potentially subject to increased scrutiny. our largest program, the f-35, represented 17% of our total consolidated net sales in 2014 and is expected to represent a higher percentage of our sales in future years. a decision to cut spending or reduce planned orders could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. for more information regarding the f-35 program, see status of the f-35 program in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. based upon our diverse range of defense, homeland security and information technology products and services, we believe that this makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term effect on our business. however, termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. we could incur expenses beyond those that would be reimbursed if one or more of our existing contracts were terminated for convenience due to lack of funding or other reasons. potential changes in funding priorities may afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on or replacement programs. while we would expect to compete and be well positioned as the incumbent on existing programs, we may not be successful or the replacement programs may be funded at lower levels. generally, we expect that the impact of budget reductions on our operating results will lag in certain of our businesses with longer cycles such as our aeronautics and space systems business segments and in our products businesses within our missiles and fire control (mfc) and mission systems and training (mst) business segments due to our production contract backlog. however, our businesses with smaller, short-term contracts are the most susceptible to the impacts of budget reductions, such as our information systems &amp; global solutions (is&amp;gs) business segment and certain services businesses within our mfc and mst business segments. we have also experienced increased market pressures in these services businesses including lower in-theater support as troop levels are drawn down and increased re-competition on existing contracts coupled with the fragmentation of large contracts into multiple smaller contracts that are awarded primarily on the basis of price. additionally, our services businesses across most of our business segments have experienced lower volume due to improved product field performance that require less service support. on december 16, 2014, the u.s. government passed the government fiscal year (gfy) 2015 omnibus spending bill to finance most federal activities through september 30, 2015, the end of its current fiscal year, after operating under continuing resolution temporary funding measures from october 1, 2014 to december 16, 2014. currently, the department of homeland security remains funded through a continuing resolution until february 27, 2015. the omnibus spending bill provides for a revised defense spending limit of $585 billion for gfy 2015 and eliminates much of the uncertainty and inefficiency in procuring products and services under the continuing resolution. under continuing resolutions, partial-year funding is available at prior year levels, subject to certain restrictions, but new spending initiatives are not authorized. in years when the u.s. government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, government operations typically are funded through a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. when the u.s. government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in contract awards due to lack of funding. historically, this has not had a material effect on our business. should a continuing resolution be used to fund u.s. government operations after gfy 2015 or decisions regarding sequestration remain pending, 10 table of contents it may cause additional government contract awards to be delayed, canceled or funded at lower levels and cause our results of operations to vary between periods. in some circumstances, we may continue to work without funding and use our funds in order to meet our customer desired delivery dates for products or services. such funds could be at risk if the u.s. government does not provide authorization and additional funding to our programs. we are subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations. our business and our reputation could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with these laws. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and impose certain risks and costs on our business. a violation of specific laws and regulations could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, suspension or debarment from bidding on or being awarded contracts, loss of our ability to export products or services and civil or criminal investigations or proceedings. in some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are different from those typically found in commercial transactions. for example, the u.s. government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts either at its convenience or for default based on our performance. upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. upon termination for convenience of a cost-reimbursable contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. allowable costs would include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. the amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. we attempt to ensure that adequate funds are available by notifying the customer when its estimated costs, including those associated with a possible termination for convenience, approach levels specified as being allotted to its programs. as funds are typically appropriated on a fiscal-year basis and as the costs of a termination for convenience may exceed the costs of continuing a program in a given fiscal year, occasionally programs do not have sufficient funds appropriated to cover the termination costs were the government to terminate them for convenience. under such circumstances, the u.s. government could assert that it is not required to appropriate additional funding. a termination arising out of our default may expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, notwithstanding the quality of our services as a subcontractor. in the case of termination for default, the u.s. government could make claims to reduce the contract value or recover its procurement costs and could assess other special penalties. however, under such circumstances we have rights and remedial actions under laws and the federal acquisition regulation (far). in addition, certain of our u.s. government contracts span one or more base years and multiple option years. the u.s. government generally has the right not to exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period for various reasons. however, the u.s. government may exercise option periods, even for contracts for which it is expected that our costs may exceed the contract price or ceiling. u.s. government agencies, including the defense contract audit agency, the defense contract management agency and various agency inspectors general, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, its cost structure, its business systems and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. we have unaudited and/or unsettled incurred cost claims related to past years, which places risk on our ability to issue final billings on contracts for which authorized and appropriated funds may be expiring. certain deficiencies identified during government audits of contractor business systems may result in the government withholding payments on our billings. such deficiencies have not impacted our internal control over financial reporting. withholding payments on billings are capped at 5% of billings when deficiencies impact a single business system and 10% when deficiencies impact multiple systems. such withholdings are typically reduced to 2% after the contractor corrective action plan has been accepted and progress to implement the corrective actions has been demonstrated and are withdrawn upon satisfactory completion and verification of the corrective action plan. 11 table of contents if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or terminations, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, penalties, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. similar government oversight exists in most other countries where we conduct business. our profitability and cash flow may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs, our performance, our ability to control costs and evolving u.s. government procurement policies. our profitability and cash flow may vary materially depending on the types of long-term government contracts undertaken, the nature of the products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees is determined, particularly under award and incentive-fee contracts. our backlog includes a variety of contract types which are intended to address changing risk and reward profiles as a program matures. contract types include cost-reimbursable, fixed-price incentive-fee, fixed-price and time-and-materials contracts. contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges are typically cost-reimbursable. under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. in these cases, the associated financial risks primarily relate to a reduction in fees and the program could be cancelled if cost, schedule or technical performance issues arise. other contracts in backlog are for the transition from development to production (e.g., low-rate initial production (lrip) contracts), which includes the challenge of starting and stabilizing a manufacturing production and test line while the final design is being validated. these generally are cost-reimbursable or fixed-price incentive-fee contracts. under a fixed-price incentive-fee contract, the allowable costs incurred are eligible for reimbursement, but are subject to a cost-share arrangement, which affects profitability. generally, if our costs exceed the contract target cost or are not allowable under the applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. there are also contracts for production as well as operations and maintenance of the delivered products that have the challenge of achieving a stable production and delivery rate, while maintaining operability of the product after delivery. these contracts are mainly fixed-price, although some operations and maintenance contracts are time-and-materials type. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price regardless of the actual costs we incur. we have to absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. the failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements may result in reduced fees or losses and affect our financial performance in that period. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, our operating results could be adversely affected, particularly if we are unable to justify an increase in contract value to our customers. cost overruns or the failure to perform on existing programs also may adversely affect our ability to retain existing programs and win future contract awards. the u.s. government is currently pursuing and implementing policies that could negatively impact our profitability. changes in procurement policy favoring more incentive-based fee arrangements, different award fee criteria or government contract negotiation offers that indicate what our costs should be may affect the predictability of our profit rates. our customers are subject to pressures that may result in a change in contract types referenced above earlier in a program maturity than is traditional. an example of this is the use of fixed-price incentive-fee contracts for recent lrip contracts on the f-35 program while the development contract is being performed concurrently. our customers also may pursue non- traditional contract provisions in negotiation of contracts. for example, changes resulting from the f-35 development contract may need to be implemented on the production contracts, a concept referred to as concurrency, which may require us to pay for a portion of the concurrency costs. an example of customer budget pressures includes the u.s. government requiring that bid and proposal costs be included in general and administrative costs, rather than charged directly to contracts in certain circumstances. other policies could negatively impact our working capital and cash flow. for example, the government has expressed a preference for requiring progress payments rather than performance based payments on new fixed-price contracts, which if implemented, delays our ability to recover a significant amount of costs incurred on a contract and thus affects the timing of our cash flows. 12 table of contents increased competition and bid protests in a budget-constrained environment may make it more difficult to maintain our financial performance and customer relationships. we are facing increased competition, particularly in information technology and cyber security at our is&amp;gs business segment, from non-traditional competitors outside of the aerospace and defense industry, in addition to our customers determining to source work internally rather than hiring a contractor. at the same time, our customers are facing budget constraints, trying to do more with less by cutting costs, identifying more affordable solutions and reducing product development cycles. we have also experienced increased market pressures in our services businesses due to the fragmentation of large contracts into multiple smaller contracts that are awarded primarily on the basis of price. it is critical we maintain strong customer relationships and seek to understand the priorities of their requirements in this price competitive environment. in international sales, we face substantial competition from both u.s. manufacturers and international manufacturers whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for their products. additionally, our competitors are also focusing on increasing their international sales to partially mitigate the effect of reduced u.s. government budgets. to remain competitive, we consistently must maintain strong customer relationships and provide superior performance, advanced technology solutions and service at an affordable cost and with the agility that our customers require to satisfy their mission objectives. as a leader in defense and global security, we have a large number of programs for which we are the incumbent contractor. a substantial portion of our business is awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government increasingly has relied upon competitive contract award types, including indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, gsa schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has the potential to create pricing pressure and increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids and proposals. in addition, multi-award contracts require that we make sustained efforts to obtain task orders under the contract. the competitive bidding process entails substantial costs and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. following award, we may encounter significant expenses, delays, contract modifications or bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. unsuccessful bidders are more frequently protesting in the hope of being awarded a subcontract for a portion of the work in return for withdrawing the protest. bid protests could result in significant expenses to us, contract modifications or even loss of the contract award. even where a bid protest does not result in the loss of a contract award, the resolution can extend the time until the contract activity can begin and, therefore, delay our recognizing sales. we are the prime contractor on most of our contracts and if our subcontractors, suppliers or teaming agreement or venture partners fail to perform their obligations, our performance and our ability to win future business could be harmed. for most of our contracts we rely on other companies to provide materials, major components and products and to perform a portion of the services that we provide to our customers. such arrangements may involve subcontracts, teaming arrangements, ventures or supply agreements with other companies upon which we rely (contracting parties). there is a risk that we may have disputes with our contracting parties, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed, the workshare provided to that party, customer concerns about the other party performance, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders, or our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor, teammate or venture partner or vice versa. in addition, changes in the economic environment, including defense budgets and constraints on available financing, may adversely affect the financial stability of our contracting parties and their ability to meet their performance requirements or to provide needed supplies on a timely basis. a failure for whatever reason by one or more of our contracting parties to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis may affect our ability to perform our obligations and require that we transition the work to other companies. for example, on february 5, 2015, one of our suppliers experienced a fire in its factory which produces propellers for our c-130j aircraft. that supplier is the sole source of these propellers. we are working with that supplier to assess whether the supplier will be able to meet its commitments to us and the potential disruption if it is not. contracting party performance deficiencies may affect our operating results and could result in a customer terminating our contract for default or convenience. a default termination could expose us to liability and affect our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. additionally, our efforts to increase the efficiency of our operations and improve the affordability of our products and services could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain suppliers. international sales may pose different risks. in 2014, 20% of our net sales were from international customers. we have a strategy to grow international sales over the next several years, inclusive of sales of f-35 aircraft to our international partners and other countries. international sales are subject to numerous political and economic factors, regulatory requirements, significant competition and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. our exposure to such risks may increase if our international sales grow as we anticipate. 13 table of contents our international business is conducted through foreign military sales (fms) contracted through the u.s. government or direct commercial sales (dcs) with international customers. in 2014, approximately half of our sales to international customers were fms while the other half were dcs. these transaction types differ as fms transactions represent sales by the u.s. government to international governments and our contract with the u.s. government is subject to far. by contrast, dcs transactions represent sales by us directly to another international government or commercial customer. all sales to international customers are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to anti-corruption, import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, taxation, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. we frequently team with international subcontractors and suppliers who are also exposed to similar risks. while we have stringent policies in place to comply with such laws and regulations, failure by us, our employees or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including suspension, proposed debarment or debarment from bidding for or performing government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on us. while international sales, whether contracted as fms or dcs, present risks that are different and potentially greater than those encountered in our u.s. business, dcs with international customers may impose even greater risks as such transactions involve commercial relationships with parties with whom we have less familiarity and where there may be significant cultural differences. additionally, international procurement rules and regulations, contract laws and regulations and contractual terms differ from those in the u.s., are less familiar to us, may be interpreted by foreign courts less bound by precedent and with more discretion and frequently have terms less favorable to us than the far. export and import, tax and currency risk also may be increased for dcs with international customers. while these risks are potentially greater than those encountered in our u.s. business, the pricing of our products and services is commensurate with the risk profile on dcs with international customers. our international business is highly sensitive to changes in regulations, political environments or security risks that may affect our ability to conduct business outside of the u.s., including those regarding investment, procurement, taxation and repatriation of earnings. our international business also may be impacted by changes in foreign national priorities, foreign government budgets and global economic conditions and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. sales of military products are also affected by defense budgets and u.s. foreign policy. additionally, the timing of orders from our international customers can be less predictable than for our u.s. customers and may lead to fluctuations in the amount reported each year for our international sales. in conjunction with defense procurements, some international customers require contractors to comply with industrial cooperation regulations, including entering into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements. offset agreements may require in-country purchases, technology transfers, local manufacturing support, investments in foreign joint ventures and financial support projects as an incentive or as a condition to a contract award. in some countries, these offset agreements may require the establishment of a venture with a local company, which must control the venture. the costs to satisfy our offset obligations are included in the estimates of our total costs to complete the contract and may impact our profitability and cash flows. the ability to recover investments that we make is generally dependent upon the successful operation of ventures that we do not control and may involve products and services that are dissimilar to our business activities. in these and other situations, we could be liable for violations of law for actions taken by these entities such as laws related to anti-corruption, import and export and anti-boycott restrictions. offset agreements generally extend over several years and may provide for penalties, which are subject to change, in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements which are typically subjective and can be outside our control. our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology products and systems. new technologies may be untested or unproven. failure of some of these products and services could result in extensive loss of life or property damage. accordingly, we also may incur liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including combat and air mobility aircraft, missile and space systems, command and control systems, air traffic control management systems, cyber security, homeland security and training programs. in some but not all circumstances, we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers, either through u.s. government indemnifications under public law 85-804, qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, contractual provisions or otherwise. we endeavor to obtain insurance coverage from established insurance carriers to cover these risks and liabilities. the amount of insurance coverage that we maintain may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, existing coverage may be cancelled while we remain exposed to the risk, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all 14 table of contents operational risks and liabilities. for example, we are limited in the amount of insurance we can obtain to cover certain natural hazards such as earthquakes and we have significant operations in geographic areas prone to this risk, such as sunnyvale, california. even if insurance coverage is available, we may not be able to obtain it at a price or on terms acceptable to us. additionally, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage terms or the insolvency of one or more of our insurance carriers may significantly affect the amount or timing of our cash flows. substantial costs resulting from an accident, failure of or defect in our products or services, natural catastrophe or other incident, or liability arising from our products and services in excess of any legal protection, indemnity and our insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or not obtained) could adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows or operating results. any accident or failure of or defect in our products or services, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. it also could affect the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. pension funding and costs are dependent on several economic assumptions which if changed may cause our future earnings and cash flow to fluctuate significantly as well as affect the affordability of our products and services. many of our employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans and we provide certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees. the impact of these plans on our u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap) earnings may be volatile in that the amount of expense we record for our postretirement benefit plans may materially change from year to year because those calculations are sensitive to funding levels as well as changes in several key economic assumptions, including interest rates, rates of return on plan assets and other actuarial assumptions including participant longevity (also known as mortality) estimates, expected rates of increase in future compensation levels through december 31, 2015 for our non-union plans, and employee turnover, as well as the timing of cash funding. changes in these factors also affect our plan funding, cash flow and stockholders equity. in addition, the funding of our plans and recovery of costs on our contracts, as described below, also may be subject to changes caused by legislative or regulatory actions. we have taken certain actions over the last few years to mitigate the volatility the plans may have on our cash flows and earnings, including amendments made in june 2014 to certain of our qualified and nonqualified defined benefit pension plans for non-union employees to freeze future retirement benefits. however, the impact of these actions may be less than anticipated or may be offset by other pension cost increases due to factors such as changes in actuarial assumptions. with regard to cash flow, in the past few years we have made substantial cash contributions to our plans in excess of the amounts required by the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), as amended by the pension protection act of 2006 (ppa). we generally are able to recover these contributions related to our plans as allowable costs on our u.s. government contracts, including fms, but there is a lag between when we contribute cash to our plans under pension funding rules and recover it under u.s. government cost accounting standards (cas). effective february 2012, the cas rules were revised to harmonize the measurement and period assignment of the pension cost allocable to government contracts with the ppa (cas harmonization). in 2013, the cost impact of cas harmonization started being phased in with the goal of better aligning the cas pension cost and erisa funding requirements being fully achieved in 2017. the enactment of the highway and transportation funding act of 2014 increased the interest rate assumption used to determine our cas pension costs, which has the effect of lowering the recovery of pension contributions during the affected periods as it decreases our cas pension costs. for more information on how these factors could impact earnings, financial position, cash flow and stockholders equity, see critical accounting policies postretirement benefit plans in management discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations and note 9 postretirement plans of our consolidated financial statements. if we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures, equity investments and other transactions successfully, our financial results, business and future prospects could be harmed. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, ventures and equity investments. we seek to identify acquisition or investment opportunities that will expand or complement our existing products and services or customer base, at attractive valuations. we often compete with others for the same opportunities. to be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate transaction terms, complete and close complex transactions, integrate acquired companies and employees and realize anticipated operating synergies efficiently and effectively. acquisition, divestiture, venture and investment transactions often require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. unidentified pre-closing liabilities could affect our future financial results, particularly successor liability under anti-corruption, import-export and technology transfer laws which provide for civil and criminal penalties and the potential for debarment. 15 table of contents ventures or equity investments operate under shared control with other parties. under the equity method of accounting for nonconsolidated ventures and investments, we recognize our share of the operating profit of these ventures in our results of operations. our operating results may be affected by the performance of businesses over which we do not exercise control and which face many of the same risks and uncertainties as we do. the most significant impact of our equity investments is in our space systems business segment where approximately 27% of its 2014 operating profit was derived from its share of earnings from equity method investees, particularly that in united launch alliance (ula). our ula investment may be negatively impacted by a provision in the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2015 (ndaa) which prevents the secretary of defense from awarding or renewing contracts for evolved expendable launch vehicle services after december 19, 2014 which utilize a rocket engine designed or manufactured in the russian federation. ula uses the russian-made rd-180 engine for its atlas v launch vehicle. ula current block buy contract with the air force, which provides for launch vehicle services through 2017 (with options through 2019), is exempted from the ndaa prohibition, as are contracts that utilize russian engines that were paid for or covered by a legally binding commitment prior to february 1, 2014. lockheed martin does not anticipate any impact on the carrying value of its equity investment in ula in 2015 as a consequence of the ndaa prohibition. ula is currently evaluating domestic engine alternatives for its atlas v launch vehicle and we will monitor the situation for potential impacts on our space systems business segment after 2015. our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face cyber threats, insider threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees and terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures, natural disasters or public health crises. we routinely experience cyber security threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure and unauthorized attempts to gain access to our company sensitive information, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and venture partners. we may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage as a contractual requirement. prior cyberattacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are adequate. the threats we face vary from attacks common to most industries to more advanced and persistent, highly organized adversaries who target us because we protect national security information. if we are unable to protect sensitive information, our customers or governmental authorities could question the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures. due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. although we work cooperatively with our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, venture partners and acquisitions to seek to minimize the impact of cyber threats, other security threats or business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these entities, which may affect the security of our information. these entities have varying levels of cyber security expertise and safeguards and their relationships with government contractors, such as lockheed martin, may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber threats we face. the costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. additionally, some cyber technologies we develop under contract for our customers, particularly those related to homeland security, may raise potential liabilities related to intellectual property and civil liberties, including privacy concerns, which may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to our customers, our future financial results, our reputation or our stock price; or such events could result in the loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts or other intellectual property, early obsolescence of our products and services or contractual penalties. environmental costs could affect our future earnings as well as the affordability of our products and services. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. we are involved in environmental responses at some of our facilities and former facilities and at third-party sites not owned by us where we have been designated a potentially responsible party by the u.s. environmental protection agency or by a state agency. in addition, we could be affected by future regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment or natural resources. we have an ongoing comprehensive sustainability program to reduce the effects of our operations on the environment. 16 table of contents we manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the government. at such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs historically have been the responsibility of the government and we have relied, and continue to rely with respect to past practices, upon government funding to pay such costs. although the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance typically are borne by either the government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. some environmental laws include criminal provisions. an environmental law conviction could affect our ability to be awarded future, or perform existing, u.s. government contracts. we have incurred and will continue to incur liabilities under various federal, state, local and foreign statutes for environmental protection and remediation. the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. among the variables management must assess in evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites generally are the status of site assessment, extent of the contamination, impacts on natural resources, changing cost estimates, evolution of technologies used to remediate the site and continually evolving governmental environmental standards and cost allowability issues. for information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent probable and estimable, see critical accounting policies environmental matters in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 12 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies of our consolidated financial statements. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by gaap, we estimate loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. for a description of our current legal proceedings, see item 3 legal proceedings and note 12 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies of our consolidated financial statements. our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain a qualified workforce. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon our ability to maintain a workforce with the requisite skills in multiple areas including: engineering, science, manufacturing, information technology, cyber security, business development and strategy and management. our operating performance is also dependent upon personnel who hold security clearances and receive substantial training in order to work on certain programs or tasks. additionally, as we expand our operations internationally, it will be increasingly important to hire and retain personnel with relevant experience in local laws, regulations, customs, traditions and business practices. we face a number of challenges that may affect personnel retention such as our endeavors to increase the efficiency of our operations and improve the affordability of our products and services such as workforce reductions and consolidating and relocating certain operations. additionally, our workforce demographic continues to shift toward a higher population that is nearing retirement. in june 2014, we amended certain of our defined benefit pension plans for non-union employees to freeze future retirement benefits, which may encourage retirement-eligible personnel to elect to retire earlier than anticipated. to the extent that we lose experienced personnel, it is critical that we develop other employees, hire new qualified personnel, and successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining personnel with the requisite skills or clearances. we increasingly compete with commercial technology companies outside of the aerospace and defense industry for qualified technical, cyber and scientific positions as the number of qualified domestic engineers is decreasing and the number of cyber professionals is not keeping up with demand. to the extent that these companies grow at a faster rate or face fewer cost and product pricing constraints, they may be able to offer more attractive compensation and other benefits to candidates or our existing employees. to the extent that the demand for skilled personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulty in performing our contracts if we were unable to do so. we also must manage leadership development and succession planning throughout our business. while we have processes in place for management transition and the transfer of knowledge, the loss of key personnel, coupled with an inability to adequately train other personnel, hire new personnel or transfer knowledge could significantly impact our ability to perform under our contracts. 17 table of contents approximately 15% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions. historically, where employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. this does not assure, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to negotiate renewals of our existing collective bargaining agreements in the future. if we encounter difficulties with renegotiations or renewals of collective bargaining arrangements or were unsuccessful in those efforts, we could incur additional costs and experience work stoppages. union actions at suppliers can also affect us. any delays or work stoppages could adversely affect our ability to perform under our contracts, which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. our estimates and projections may prove to be inaccurate. the accounting for some of our most significant activities is based on judgments and estimates, which are complex and subject to many variables. for example, accounting for sales using the percentage-of-completion method requires that we assess risks and make assumptions regarding schedule, cost, technical and performance issues for each of our thousands of contracts, many of which are long-term in nature. another example is the $10.9 billion of goodwill assets recorded on our balance sheet as of december 31, 2014 from previous acquisitions that were made over time which represent greater than 25% of our total assets and are subject to annual impairment testing and more frequent testing upon the occurrence of certain events or significant changes in circumstances that indicate goodwill may be impaired. if we experience changes or factors arise that negatively affect the expected cash flows of a reporting unit, we may be required to write off all or a portion of the reporting unit related goodwill assets. changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, including possibly with retroactive effect, and audits by tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our tax expense and affect profitability and cash flows. for example, proposals to lower the u.s. corporate income tax rate would require us to reduce our net deferred tax assets upon enactment of the related tax legislation, with a corresponding material, one-time increase to income tax expense, but our income tax expense and payments would be materially reduced in subsequent years. actual financial results could differ from our judgments and estimates. refer to critical accounting policies in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 1 significant accounting policies of our consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of our significant accounting policies and use of estimates. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we maintain active relationships with a broad and diverse group of u.s. and international financial institutions. we believe that they provide us with sufficient access to the general and trade credit we require to conduct our business. we continue to closely monitor the financial market environment and actively manage counterparty exposure to minimize the potential impact from adverse developments with any single credit provider while ensuring availability of, and access to, sufficient credit resources. our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market prices on certain equity securities. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate long-term debt. the estimated fair value of our outstanding debt was $7.9 billion at december 31, 2014 and the outstanding principal amount was $7.0 billion, excluding unamortized discounts of $872 million. a 10% change in the level of interest rates would not have a material impact on the fair value of our outstanding debt at december 31, 2014. we use derivative instruments principally to reduce our exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we do not enter into or hold derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes. we transact business globally and are subject to risks associated with changing foreign currency exchange rates. we enter into foreign currency hedges such as forward and option contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the british pound sterling and the canadian dollar. these contracts hedge forecasted foreign currency transactions in order to mitigate fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we designate foreign currency hedges as cash flow hedges. we also are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through our borrowing activities. for fixed rate borrowings, we may use variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings indexed to libor in order to reduce the amount of interest paid. these swaps are designated as fair value hedges. for variable rate borrowings, we may use fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting variable rate borrowings to fixed rate borrowings in order to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes on earnings. these swaps are designated as cash flow hedges. we also may enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting, which are intended to mitigate certain economic exposures. the classification of gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair values of derivatives is dependent on our intended use of the derivative and its resulting designation. adjustments to reflect changes in fair values of derivatives attributable to the effective portion of hedges are either reflected in earnings and largely offset by corresponding adjustments to the hedged items or reflected net of income taxes in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are attributable to the ineffective portion of the hedges, or of derivatives that are not considered to be highly effective hedges, if any, are immediately recognized in earnings. the aggregate notional amount of our outstanding interest rate swaps at december 31, 2014 and 2013 was $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion. the aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency hedges at december 31, 2014 and 2013 was $804 million and $1.0 billion. at december 31, 2014 and 2013, the net fair value of our derivative instruments was not material (note 15). a 10% appreciation or devaluation of the hedged currency as compared to the level of foreign exchange rates for currencies under contract at december 31, 2014 would not have a material impact on the aggregate net fair value of such contracts or our consolidated financial statements. we evaluate the credit quality of potential counterparties to derivative transactions and only enter into agreements with those deemed to have acceptable credit risk at the time the agreements are executed. our foreign currency exchange hedge portfolio is diversified across several banks. we periodically monitor changes to counterparty credit quality as well as our concentration of credit exposure to individual counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we maintain a separate trust that includes investments to fund certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans. as of december 31, 2014, investments in the trust totaled $1.1 billion and are reflected at fair value on our balance sheet in other noncurrent assets. the trust holds investments in marketable equity securities and fixed-income securities that are 56 table of contents exposed to price changes and changes in interest rates. a portion of the liabilities associated with the deferred compensation plans supported by the trust is also impacted by changes in the market price of our common stock and certain market indices. changes in the value of the liabilities have the effect of partially offsetting the impact of changes in the value of the trust. both the change in the fair value of the trust and the change in the value of the liabilities are recognized on our statements of earnings in other unallocated, net and were not material for the year ended december 31, 2014. 57 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. the outcome of one or more of these risks could have a material effect on our operating results, financial position, or cash flows. you should carefully consider the following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our common stock or debt securities. we depend heavily on contracts with the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business. we derived 78% of our total net sales from the u.s. government in 2015, including 58% from the department of defense (dod). we expect to continue to derive most of our sales from work performed under u.s. government contracts. those contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. consequently, contracts are often partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of funds obligated on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs unless and until additional funds are obligated to the contract. as discussed within the industry considerations in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the u.s. government continues to face significant deficit reduction pressures and it is likely that discretionary spending by the u.s. government will remain constrained for a number of years. under such conditions, large or complex programs, which consist of multiple contracts and phases, are potentially subject to increased scrutiny. our largest program, the f-35, represented 20% of our total net sales in 2015 and is expected to represent a higher percentage of our sales in future years. a decision to cut spending or reduce planned orders could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. for more information regarding the f-35 program, see status of the f-35 program in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. based upon our diverse range of defense, homeland security and information technology products and services, we believe that this makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term effect on our business. however, termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. potential changes in funding priorities may afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms 11 table of contents of existing, follow-on or replacement programs. while we would expect to compete and be well positioned as the incumbent on existing programs, we may not be successful or the replacement programs may be funded at lower levels. generally, we expect that the impact of budget reductions on our operating results will lag in certain of our businesses with longer cycles such as our aeronautics and space systems business segments and in our products businesses within our missiles and fire control (mfc) and mission systems and training (mst) business segments due to our production contract backlog. however, our businesses with smaller, short-term contracts are the most susceptible to the impacts of budget reductions, such as our information systems &amp; global solutions (is&amp;gs) business segment. we have also experienced increased market pressures in these services businesses including lower in-theater support as troop levels are drawn down and increased re-competition on existing contracts coupled with the fragmentation of large contracts into multiple smaller contracts that are awarded primarily on the basis of price. additionally, our services businesses across most of our business segments have experienced lower volume due to improved product field performance that require less service support. changes in our business environment require us to be agile and evolve our business models, processes and products. we are subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations. our business and our reputation could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with these laws. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and impose certain risks and costs on our business. a violation of specific laws and regulations, by us, a supplier or a venture partner, could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, suspension or debarment from bidding on or being awarded contracts, loss of our ability to export products or services and civil or criminal investigations or proceedings. in some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are different from those typically found in commercial transactions. for example, the u.s. government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts either at its convenience or for default based on our performance. upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. upon termination for convenience of a cost-reimbursable contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. allowable costs would include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. the amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. we attempt to ensure that adequate funds are available by notifying the customer when its estimated costs, including those associated with a possible termination for convenience, approach levels specified as being allotted to its programs. as funds are typically appropriated on a fiscal-year basis and as the costs of a termination for convenience may exceed the costs of continuing a program in a given fiscal year, occasionally programs do not have sufficient funds appropriated to cover the termination costs were the government to terminate them for convenience. under such circumstances, the u.s. government could assert that it is not required to appropriate additional funding. a termination arising out of our default may expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, notwithstanding the quality of our services as a subcontractor. in the case of termination for default, the u.s. government could make claims to reduce the contract value or recover its procurement costs and could assess other special penalties. however, under such circumstances we have rights and remedial actions under laws and the federal acquisition regulation (far). in addition, certain of our u.s. government contracts span one or more base years and multiple option years. the u.s. government generally has the right not to exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period for various reasons. however, the u.s. government may exercise option periods, even for contracts for which it is expected that our costs may exceed the contract price or ceiling. u.s. government agencies, including the defense contract audit agency, the defense contract management agency and various agency inspectors general, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, its cost structure, its business systems and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. we have unaudited and/or 12 table of contents unsettled incurred cost claims related to past years, which places risk on our ability to issue final billings on contracts for which authorized and appropriated funds may be expiring. certain deficiencies identified during government audits of contractor business systems may result in the government withholding payments on our billings. such deficiencies have not impacted our internal control over financial reporting. withholding payments on billings are capped at 5% of billings when deficiencies impact a single business system and 10% when deficiencies impact multiple systems. such withholdings are typically reduced to 2% after the contractor corrective action plan has been accepted and progress to implement the corrective actions has been demonstrated, and withholdings are withdrawn upon satisfactory completion and verification of the corrective action plan. if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or terminations, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, penalties, fines and suspension, or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. similar government oversight exists in most other countries where we conduct business. our profitability and cash flow may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs, our performance, our ability to control costs and evolving u.s. government procurement policies. our profitability and cash flow may vary materially depending on the types of government contracts undertaken, the nature of products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees is determined, particularly under award and incentive-fee contracts. our backlog includes a variety of contract types that are intended to address changing risk and reward profiles as a program matures. contract types include cost-reimbursable, fixed-price incentive-fee, fixed-price and time-and-materials contracts. contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges are typically cost-reimbursable. under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. in these cases, the associated financial risks primarily relate to a reduction in fees and the program could be cancelled if cost, schedule or technical performance issues arise. other contracts in backlog are for the transition from development to production (e.g., low-rate initial production (lrip) contracts), which includes the challenge of starting and stabilizing a manufacturing production and test line while the final design is being validated. these generally are cost-reimbursable or fixed-price incentive-fee contracts. under a fixed-price incentive-fee contract, the allowable costs incurred are eligible for reimbursement but are subject to a cost-share arrangement, which affects profitability. generally, if our costs exceed the contract target cost or are not allowable under the applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. there are also contracts for production, as well as operations and maintenance of the delivered products, that have the challenge of achieving a stable production and delivery rate, while maintaining operability of the product after delivery. these contracts are mainly fixed-price, although some operations and maintenance contracts are time-and-materials type. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price regardless of the actual costs we incur. we have to absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. the failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements may result in reduced fees or losses and affect our financial performance in that period. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, our operating results could be adversely affected, particularly if we are unable to justify an increase in contract value to our customers. cost overruns or the failure to perform on existing programs also may adversely affect our ability to retain existing programs and win future contract awards. the u.s. government is currently pursuing and implementing policies that could negatively impact our profitability. changes in procurement policy favoring more incentive-based fee arrangements, different award fee criteria or government contract negotiation offers that indicate what our costs should be may affect the predictability of our profit rates. our customers are subject to pressures that may result in a change in contract types referenced above earlier in a program maturity than is traditional. an example of this is the use of fixed-price incentive-fee contracts for recent lrip contracts on the f-35 program while the development contract is being performed concurrently. our customers also may pursue non- 13 table of contents traditional contract provisions in negotiation of contracts. for example, changes resulting from the f-35 development contract may need to be implemented on the production contracts, a concept referred to as concurrency, which may require us to pay for a portion of the concurrency costs. an example of customer budget pressures includes the u.s. government requiring that bid and proposal costs be included in general and administrative costs, rather than charged directly to contracts in certain circumstances. other policies could negatively impact our working capital and cash flow. for example, the government has expressed a preference for requiring progress payments rather than performance based payments on new fixed-price contracts, which if implemented, delays our ability to recover a significant amount of costs incurred on a contract and thus affects the timing of our cash flows. increased competition and bid protests in a budget-constrained environment may make it more difficult to maintain our financial performance and customer relationships. we are facing increased competition, particularly in information technology at our is&amp;gs business segment and cybersecurity at our mst business segment, from non-traditional competitors outside of the aerospace and defense industry. at the same time, our customers are facing budget constraints, trying to do more with less by cutting costs, identifying more affordable solutions, performing certain work internally rather than hiring a contractor, and reducing product development cycles. we have also experienced increased market pressures in our services businesses due to the fragmentation of large contracts into multiple smaller contracts that are awarded primarily on the basis of price. it is critical we maintain strong customer relationships and seek to understand the priorities of their requirements in this price competitive environment. in international sales, we face substantial competition from both u.s. manufacturers and international manufacturers whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for their products. additionally, our competitors are also focusing on increasing their international sales to partially mitigate the effect of reduced u.s. government budgets. to remain competitive, we consistently must maintain strong customer relationships and provide superior performance, advanced technology solutions and service at an affordable cost and with the agility that our customers require to satisfy their mission objectives. a substantial portion of our business is awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government increasingly has relied upon competitive contract award types, including indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, gsa schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has the potential to create pricing pressure and increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids and proposals. in addition, multi-award contracts require that we make sustained efforts to obtain task orders under the contract. the competitive bidding process entails substantial costs and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. following award, we may encounter significant expenses, delays, contract modifications or bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. unsuccessful bidders are more frequently protesting in the hope of being awarded a subcontract for a portion of the work in return for withdrawing the protest. bid protests could result in significant expenses to us, contract modifications or even loss of the contract award. even where a bid protest does not result in the loss of a contract award, the resolution can extend the time until the contract activity can begin and, as a result, delay our recognizing sales. we also may not be successful in our efforts to protest or challenge any bids for contracts that were not awarded to us and we could incur significant time and expense in such efforts. we are the prime contractor on most of our contracts and if our subcontractors, suppliers or teaming agreement or venture partners fail to perform their obligations, our performance and our ability to win future business could be harmed. for most of our contracts we rely on other companies to provide materials, major components and products, and to perform a portion of the services that we provide to our customers. such arrangements may involve subcontracts, teaming arrangements, ventures or supply agreements with other companies upon which we rely (contracting parties). there is a risk that we may have disputes with our contracting parties, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed, the workshare provided to that party, customer concerns about the other party performance, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders, or our hiring the personnel of a subcontractor, teammate or venture partner or vice versa. in addition, changes in the economic environment, including defense budgets and constraints on available financing, may adversely affect the financial stability of our contracting parties and their ability to meet their performance requirements or to provide needed supplies on a timely basis. a failure, for whatever reason, by one or more of our contracting parties to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis may affect our ability to perform our obligations and require that we transition the work to other companies. contracting party 14 table of contents performance deficiencies may affect our operating results and could result in a customer terminating our contract for default or convenience. a default termination could expose us to liability and affect our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. additionally, our efforts to increase the efficiency of our operations and improve the affordability of our products and services could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain suppliers. international sales may pose different risks. in 2015, 21% of our total net sales were from international customers. we have a strategy to grow international sales over the next several years, inclusive of sales of f-35 aircraft to our international partners and other countries. international sales are subject to numerous political and economic factors, regulatory requirements, significant competition and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. our exposure to such risks increased as a result of our acquisition of sikorsky and may further increase if our international sales grow as we anticipate. our international business is conducted through foreign military sales (fms) contracted through the u.s. government or by direct commercial sales (dcs) with international customers. in 2015, approximately 62% of our sales to international customers were fms and about 38% were dcs. these transaction types differ as fms transactions represent sales by the u.s. government to international governments and our contract with the u.s. government is subject to far. by contrast, dcs transactions represent sales directly to another international government or commercial customer. all sales to international customers are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to anti-corruption, import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, taxation, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws, and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. while we have stringent policies in place to comply with such laws and regulations, failure by us, our employees or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, including suspension, debarment from bidding for or performing government contracts, or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on us. we frequently team with international subcontractors and suppliers who are also exposed to similar risks. while international sales, whether contracted as fms or dcs, present risks that are different and potentially greater than those encountered in our u.s. business, dcs with international customers may impose even greater risks. dcs transactions involve commercial relationships with parties with whom we have less familiarity and where there may be significant cultural differences. additionally, international procurement rules and regulations, contract laws and regulations, and contractual terms differ from those in the u.s. and are less familiar to us. international regulations may be interpreted by foreign courts less bound by precedent and with more discretion; these interpretations frequently have terms less favorable to us than the far. export and import, tax and currency risk also may be increased for dcs with international customers. while these risks are potentially greater than those encountered in our u.s. business, the pricing of our products and services is commensurate with the risk profile on dcs with international customers. our international business is highly sensitive to changes in regulations, political environments or security risks that may affect our ability to conduct business outside of the u.s., including those regarding investment, procurement, taxation and repatriation of earnings. our international business also may be impacted by changes in foreign national priorities, foreign government budgets, global economic conditions, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. our acquisition of sikorsky is expected to increase our international sales further exposing us to the risks of international business. sales of military products are also affected by defense budgets and u.s. foreign policy. additionally, the timing of orders from our international customers can be less predictable than for our u.s. customers and may lead to fluctuations in the amount reported each year for our international sales. in conjunction with defense procurements, some international customers require contractors to comply with industrial cooperation regulations, including entering into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements. offset agreements may require in-country purchases, technology transfers, local manufacturing support, investments in foreign joint ventures and financial support projects as an incentive or as a condition to a contract award. in some countries, these offset agreements may require the establishment of a venture with a local company, which must control the venture. the costs to satisfy our offset obligations are included in the estimates of our total costs to complete the contract and may impact our profitability and cash flows. the ability to recover investments that we make is generally dependent upon the successful operation of ventures that we do not control and may involve products and services that are dissimilar to our business activities. in these and other situations, we could be liable for violations of law for actions taken by these entities such as laws related to anti-corruption, import and export, and anti-boycott restrictions. offset agreements generally extend over several years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements which are typically subjective and can be outside our control. 15 table of contents our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions. we routinely experience cybersecurity threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure, and unauthorized attempts to gain access to our company sensitive information, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and venture partners. we may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage as a contractual requirement. prior cyberattacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are adequate. the threats we face vary from attacks common to most industries to more advanced and persistent, highly organized adversaries who target us because we protect national security information. if we are unable to protect sensitive information, our customers or governmental authorities could question the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures. due to the evolving nature of these security threats, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. although we work cooperatively with our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, venture partners and acquisitions to seek to minimize the impact of cyber threats, other security threats, or business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these entities, which may affect the security of our information. these entities have varying levels of cybersecurity expertise and safeguards, and their relationships with government contractors, such as lockheed martin, may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber threats we face. on july 9, 2015, the u.s. office of personnel management (opm) announced that the background investigation records of 21.5 million current, former and prospective federal employees and contractors had been compromised as a result of a cyber-security incident. many of our current as well as former employees were the subjects of background investigations in connection with former government service or as part of the screening process for a security clearance. we are currently assessing the impact of this cyber-security incident but do not yet know the impact, if any, on lockheed martin or our current or former employees. the costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. additionally, some cyber technologies we develop under contract for our customers, particularly those related to homeland security, may raise potential liabilities related to intellectual property and civil liberties, including privacy concerns, which may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to our customers, our future financial results, our reputation, or our stock price. additionally, such events could result in the loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts or other intellectual property; early obsolescence of our products and services; or contractual penalties. if we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures, equity investments and other transactions successfully or if acquired entities or equity investments fail to perform as expected, our financial results, business and future prospects could be harmed. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate companies, and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, ventures and equity investments. we seek to identify acquisition or investment opportunities that will expand or complement our existing products and services or customer base, at attractive valuations. we often compete with others for the same opportunities. to be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies; negotiate transaction terms; complete and close complex transactions; integrate acquired companies and employees; and realize anticipated operating synergies efficiently and effectively. acquisition, divestiture, venture and investment transactions often require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. unidentified pre-closing liabilities could affect our future financial results, particularly successor liability under procurement laws and regulations such as the false claims act or truth in negotiations act, anti-corruption, tax, import-export and technology transfer laws which provide for civil and criminal penalties and the potential for debarment. we also may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, employee retention, transaction-related or other litigation, and other liabilities. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. ventures, or non-controlling equity investments, operate under shared control with other parties. under the equity method of accounting for nonconsolidated ventures and investments, we recognize our share of the operating profit of these ventures in our results of operations. our operating results may be affected by the performance of businesses over which we do not exercise control and which face many of the same risks and uncertainties as we do. the most significant impact of our 16 table of contents equity investments is in our space systems business segment where approximately 21% of its 2015 operating profit was derived from its share of earnings from equity method investees, particularly that in united launch alliance (ula). our ula investment may be negatively impacted by restrictions in the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2015 that prevent the award or renewal of contracts after december 29, 2014 for evolved expendable launch vehicle services that utilize a rocket engine designed or manufactured in the russian federation such as the rd-180 engine used by the atlas v launch vehicle. the consolidated appropriations act of 2016 lifts these restrictions for fiscal year 2016. accordingly, lockheed martin does not anticipate an impact on the carrying value of its equity investment in ula in 2016. if restrictions are re-imposed for fiscal year 2016, as some in congress advocate, or the lifting of the restrictions is not extended to later fiscal years, or if sanctioned individuals are found to be too closely connected to the engine manufacturer, ula will be challenged to compete effectively for national security launch procurements which could negatively impact ula and the carrying value of our investment in ula. ula continues to evaluate domestic engine alternatives and we will continue to monitor the carrying value of our investment. the acquired sikorsky business may underperform relative to our expectations, the transaction may cause our financial results to differ from our expectations or the expectations of the investment community and we may not be able to achieve anticipated cost savings or other anticipated synergies. on november 6, 2015, we completed the acquisition of sikorsky aircraft corporation (sikorsky) by purchasing all of the issued and outstanding equity of sikorsky for $9.0 billion, net of cash acquired. we believe that we will benefit from the integration of our products and technologies with those of the sikorsky business and realize synergies and potential for long-term growth, as well as expanded capabilities and customer relationships as a result of the acquisition. however, the integration process is complex, costly and time-consuming and we may not be able to capture anticipated synergies, tax benefits, cost savings, and business opportunities in the time frame anticipated, or at all. sikorsky also may not perform as expected, or demand for its products may be adversely affected by global economic conditions, including oil and gas trends that are outside of its control. the acquisition could also cause disruptions in our and sikorsky business, including potential adverse reactions or changes to business relationships and competitive responses. the dod has expressed concerns regarding greater consolidation in the defense industry at the prime contractor level in the context of our acquisition of sikorsky and indicated the potential that they will seek to work with congress to explore additional legal tools and policy to preserve diversity at the prime contract level. changes in dod policy or perception of our size could have adverse impacts on our business, including our success in future contract pursuits. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are pursuing a plan to separate and combine our government information technology and technical services businesses with leidos, holdings, inc. in a tax-efficient reverse morris trust transaction. the proposed transaction may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or at all and may not achieve the intended benefits. on january 26, 2016, we entered into definitive agreements to separate and combine our information systems &amp; global solutions (is&amp;gs) business segment with leidos holdings, inc. (leidos) in a tax-efficient reverse morris trust transaction. as part of the transaction, we will receive a $1.8 billion one-time special cash payment. the cash payment is subject to adjustment and could be less or more than anticipated due to variances in working capital. additionally, our stockholders will receive approximately 50.5 percent of the outstanding equity of leidos on a fully diluted basis (approximately 77 million shares) with an estimated value of $3.2 billion based on leidos stock price on the date of announcement. however, the actual value of the stock to be received by our stockholders will depend on the value of such shares at the time of closing of the transaction and our stockholders may receive more or less than the anticipated value. at our election, the distribution may be effected by means of a pro rata dividend in a spin-off transaction or in an exchange offer for outstanding lockheed martin shares in a split-off transaction. the transaction structure, which is subject to market conditions, is currently contemplated to be a split-off transaction resulting in a decrease in our outstanding common shares and a significant book gain at closing. in a split-off transaction, only those stockholders that elect to participate will receive leidos shares in the merger transaction, provided, that, if the exchange offer is not fully subscribed, lockheed martin will spin-off the remaining shares to be converted into leidos stock in the merger pro rata. the value of the shares of leidos stock to be received and the value of our stock at the time of the split-off will also impact the number of any shares of our stock retired in the split-off and the amount of any book gain. although the transaction structure is currently contemplated to be a split-off transaction, there is no assurance that the transaction will be structured as a split-off transaction or that it will result in a reduction in our shares or a gain at closing. there can be no assurance of the timing of a transaction with leidos, or whether any such transaction will take place at all. the transaction is subject to closing conditions, including the receipt of approval of leidos stockholders, regulatory approvals and receipt of opinions of tax counsel, and there can be no assurance that we will receive the required approvals in 17 table of contents a timely manner or at all, or that such approvals will not contain adverse conditions. we also have no assurance that we will be able to realize the intended benefits and tax treatment of the transaction or that the new combined company will perform as expected. the announcement and pendency of the transaction could also cause disruptions in our and leidos business, including potential adverse reactions or changes to business relationships and competitive responses to the transaction. the transaction will also require significant amounts of time and effort which could divert management attention from operating and growing our business. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. declines in our sales, earnings and cash flows could also result in future asset impairments (including goodwill). additionally, the former is&amp;gs programs we moved to our other business segments and retained could experience increased pricing pressures which could have a negative impact on operating margins and impact our ability to win future renewals. in addition, as part of the transaction with leidos, it is contemplated that immediately prior to the transaction, the is&amp;gs business would enter into third-party financing in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.8 billion to finance the $1.8 billion special cash payment and the payment of certain fees and expenses. the is&amp;gs business (through a subsidiary created for the transaction) has entered into a commitment letter (the commitment letter ) with certain financial institutions to provide this financing through $710 million of term loan a facilities and a $1.13 billion term loan b facility. under the terms of the commitment letter, if the closing does not occur by july 26, 2016, the lenders (in consultation with us) could require the is&amp;gs business subsidiary to borrow up to the full amount of the term loan b facility in advance of the closing of the transaction (the loan demand ) and deposit the proceeds of such borrowing in escrow to secure such loan, which would increase our total outstanding debt for the period from the date the loan demand is exercised until closing of the transaction. if the closing of the transaction were not to occur and our agreement with leidos was terminated, we would cause the is&amp;gs business to repay any amounts borrowed and would be entitled to reimbursement for financing costs from leidos under the term of our agreement with leidos. our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology products and systems. new technologies may be untested or unproven. failure of some of these products and services could result in extensive loss of life or property damage. accordingly, we also may incur liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including combat and air mobility aircraft, missile and space systems, command and control systems, air traffic control management systems, cybersecurity, homeland security and training programs. in some but not all circumstances, we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers, either through u.s. government indemnifications under public law 85-804 or the price-anderson act, qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, contractual provisions or otherwise. we endeavor to obtain insurance coverage from established insurance carriers to cover these risks and liabilities. the amount of insurance coverage that we maintain may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities. existing coverage may be cancelled while we remain exposed to the risk, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. for example, we are limited in the amount of insurance we can obtain to cover certain natural hazards, such as earthquakes. we have significant operations in geographic areas prone to this risk, such as sunnyvale, california. even if insurance coverage is available, we may not be able to obtain it at a price or on terms acceptable to us. additionally, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage terms or the insolvency of one or more of our insurance carriers may significantly affect the amount or timing of our cash flows. substantial costs resulting from an accident; failure of or defect in our products or services; natural catastrophe or other incident; or liability arising from our products and services in excess of any legal protection, indemnity, and our insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or not obtained) could adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows, or operating results. any accident, failure of, or defect in our products or services, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. it also could affect the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. pension funding and costs are dependent on several economic assumptions which if changed may cause our future earnings and cash flow to fluctuate significantly as well as affect the affordability of our products and services. many of our employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans, and we provide certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees. the impact of these plans on our u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap) earnings may be volatile in that the amount of expense we record for our postretirement benefit plans may materially change from year to year because those calculations are sensitive to funding levels as well as changes in several key economic assumptions, including interest rates, rates of return on plan assets, and other actuarial assumptions including participant longevity (also known as mortality), employee turnover, as well as the timing of cash funding. changes in these 18 table of contents factors, including actual returns on plan assets, may also affect our plan funding, cash flow and stockholders equity. in addition, the funding of our plans and recovery of costs on our contracts, as described below, also may be subject to changes caused by legislative or regulatory actions. we have taken certain actions over the last few years to mitigate the volatility the plans may have on our cash flows and earnings, including amendments made in june 2014 to certain of our qualified and nonqualified defined benefit pension plans for non-union employees to freeze future retirement benefits. however, the impact of these actions on our cash flow and earnings may be less than anticipated or may be offset by other factors such as changes in actuarial assumptions and plan asset investment returns. with regard to cash flow, we have made substantial cash contributions to our plans in excess of the amounts required by the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), as amended by the pension protection act of 2006 (ppa). we generally are able to recover these contributions related to our plans as allowable costs on our u.s. government contracts, including fms, but there is a lag between when we contribute cash to our plans under pension funding rules and recover it under u.s. government cost accounting standards (cas). effective february 2012, the cas rules were revised to harmonize the measurement and period assignment of the pension cost allocable to government contracts with the ppa (cas harmonization). in 2013, the cost impact of cas harmonization started being phased in with the goal of better aligning the cas pension cost and erisa funding requirements being fully achieved in 2017. the enactment of the highway and transportation funding act of 2014 and bipartisan budget act of 2015 increased the interest rate assumption used to determine our cas pension costs, which has the effect of lowering the recovery of pension contributions during the affected periods as it decreases our cas pension costs. for more information on how these factors could impact earnings, financial position, cash flow and stockholders equity, see critical accounting policies postretirement benefit plans in management discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations and note 11 postretirement plans of our consolidated financial statements. environmental costs could affect our future earnings as well as the affordability of our products and services. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. we are involved in environmental responses at some of our facilities, former facilities, and at third-party sites not owned by us where we have been designated a potentially responsible party. in addition, we could be affected by future regulations imposed or claims asserted in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment or natural resources. we have an ongoing comprehensive sustainability program to reduce the effects of our operations on the environment. we manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the government. at such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs historically have been the responsibility of the government, and we have relied, and continue to rely with respect to past practices, upon government funding to pay such costs. although the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance typically is borne by either the government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. some environmental laws include criminal provisions. an environmental law conviction could affect our ability to be awarded future, or perform existing, u.s. government contracts. we have incurred and will continue to incur liabilities under various federal, state, local and foreign statutes for environmental protection and remediation. the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. among the variables management must assess in evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites generally are the status of site assessment, extent of the contamination, impacts on natural resources, changing cost estimates, evolution of technologies used to remediate the site, and continually evolving governmental environmental standards and cost allowability issues. for information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent probable and estimable, see critical accounting policies environmental matters in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 14 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies of our consolidated financial statements. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by gaap, we estimate loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our 19 table of contents assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. for a description of our current legal proceedings, see item 3 legal proceedings and note 14 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies of our consolidated financial statements. our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain a qualified workforce. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon our ability to maintain a workforce with the requisite skills in multiple areas including: engineering, science, manufacturing, information technology, cybersecurity, business development and strategy and management. our operating performance is also dependent upon personnel who hold security clearances and receive substantial training in order to work on certain programs or tasks. additionally, as we expand our operations internationally, it will be increasingly important to hire and retain personnel with relevant experience in local laws, regulations, customs, traditions and business practices. we face a number of challenges that may affect personnel retention such as our endeavors to increase the efficiency of our operations and improve the affordability of our products and services such as workforce reductions and consolidating and relocating certain operations. additionally, our workforce demographic continues to shift toward a higher proportion of employees nearing retirement. in june 2014, we amended certain of our defined benefit pension plans for non-union employees to freeze future retirement benefits, which may encourage retirement-eligible personnel to elect to retire earlier than anticipated. to the extent that we lose experienced personnel, it is critical that we develop other employees, hire new qualified personnel, and successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining personnel with the requisite skills or clearances. we increasingly compete with commercial technology companies outside of the aerospace and defense industry for qualified technical, cyber and scientific positions as the number of qualified domestic engineers is decreasing and the number of cyber professionals is not keeping up with demand. to the extent that these companies grow at a faster rate or face fewer cost and product pricing constraints, they may be able to offer more attractive compensation and other benefits to candidates or our existing employees. to the extent that the demand for skilled personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees; we could experience difficulty in performing our contracts if we were unable to do so. we also must manage leadership development and succession planning throughout our business. while we have processes in place for management transition and the transfer of knowledge, the loss of key personnel, coupled with an inability to adequately train other personnel, hire new personnel or transfer knowledge, could significantly impact our ability to perform under our contracts. approximately 18% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions. historically, where employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. this does not assure, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to negotiate renewals of our existing collective bargaining agreements in the future. if we encounter difficulties with renegotiations or renewals of collective bargaining arrangements or are unsuccessful in those efforts, we could incur additional costs and experience work stoppages. union actions at suppliers can also affect us. any delays or work stoppages could adversely affect our ability to perform under our contracts, which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. our estimates and projections may prove to be inaccurate. the accounting for some of our most significant activities is based on judgments and estimates, which are complex and subject to many variables. for example, accounting for sales using the percentage-of-completion method requires that we assess risks and make assumptions regarding schedule, cost, technical and performance issues for each of our thousands of contracts, many of which are long-term in nature. additionally, we initially allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses based on a preliminary assessment of the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. the size and breadth of significant acquisitions, such as sikorsky, necessitate the use of a one year measurement period to adequately analyze and assess a number of factors used in establishing the asset and liability fair values as of the acquisition date and could result in adjustments to asset and liability balances, including changes in fair values of contracts assumed, fixed assets, inventories and deferred revenue and changes in fair values of intangible assets and goodwill, as well as changes to the amortization periods assigned to these assets. any potential adjustments made could be material in relation to the preliminary purchase price allocations recorded on acquisition dates. another example is the $13.6 billion of goodwill assets recorded on our balance sheet as of december 31, 2015 from previous acquisitions which represent greater than 27% of our total assets. these goodwill assets are subject to annual impairment testing and more frequent testing upon the occurrence of certain 20 table of contents events or significant changes in circumstances that indicate goodwill may be impaired. if we experience changes or factors arise that negatively affect the expected cash flows of a reporting unit, we may be required to write off all or a portion of the reporting unit related goodwill assets. changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, including those with retroactive effect, and audits by tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our tax expense and affect profitability and cash flows. for example, proposals to lower the u.s. corporate income tax rate would require us to reduce our net deferred tax assets upon enactment of the related tax legislation, with a corresponding material, one-time increase to income tax expense; however, our income tax expense and payments would be materially reduced in subsequent years. actual financial results could differ from our judgments and estimates. refer to critical accounting policies in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 1 significant accounting policies of our consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of our significant accounting policies and use of estimates. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we maintain active relationships with a broad and diverse group of u.s. and international financial institutions. we believe that they provide us with sufficient access to the general and trade credit we require to conduct our business. we continue to closely monitor the financial market environment and actively manage counterparty exposure to minimize the potential impact from adverse developments with any single credit provider while ensuring availability of, and access to, sufficient credit resources. our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market prices on certain equity securities. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate long-term debt. the estimated fair value of our outstanding debt was $16.5 billion at december 31, 2015 and the outstanding principal amount was $16.2 billion, excluding unamortized discounts and deferred financing costs of $1.0 billion. a 10% change in the level of interest rates would not have a material impact on the fair value of our outstanding debt at december 31, 2015. we use derivative instruments principally to reduce our exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we do not enter into or hold derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes. we transact business globally and are subject to risks associated with changing foreign currency exchange rates. we enter into foreign currency hedges such as forward and option contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the british pound sterling and the canadian dollar. these contracts hedge forecasted foreign currency transactions in order to mitigate fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we designate foreign currency hedges as cash flow hedges. we also are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through our borrowing activities. for fixed rate borrowings, we may use variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings indexed to libor in order to reduce the amount of interest paid. these swaps are designated as fair value hedges. for variable rate borrowings, we may use fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting variable rate borrowings to fixed rate borrowings in order to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes on earnings. these swaps are designated as cash flow hedges. we also may enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting, which are intended to mitigate certain economic exposures. the classification of gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair values of derivatives is dependent on our intended use of the derivative and its resulting designation. adjustments to reflect changes in fair values of derivatives attributable to the effective portion of hedges are either reflected in earnings and largely offset by corresponding adjustments to the hedged items or reflected net of income taxes in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are attributable to the ineffective portion of the hedges, or of derivatives that are not considered to be highly effective hedges, if any, are immediately recognized in earnings. the aggregate notional amount of our outstanding interest rate swaps at december 31, 2015 and 2014 was $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion. the aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency hedges at december 31, 2015 and 2014 was $4.1 billion and $804 million. at december 31, 2015 and 2014, the net fair value of our derivative instruments was not 64 table of contents material (note 15). a 10% appreciation or devaluation of the hedged currency as compared to the level of foreign exchange rates for currencies under contract at december 31, 2015 would not have a material impact on the aggregate net fair value of such contracts or our consolidated financial statements. we evaluate the credit quality of potential counterparties to derivative transactions and only enter into agreements with those deemed to have acceptable credit risk at the time the agreements are executed. our foreign currency exchange hedge portfolio is diversified across several banks. we periodically monitor changes to counterparty credit quality as well as our concentration of credit exposure to individual counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we maintain a separate trust that includes investments to fund certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans. as of december 31, 2015, investments in the trust totaled $1.1 billion and are reflected at fair value on our balance sheet in other noncurrent assets. the trust holds investments in marketable equity securities and fixed-income securities that are exposed to price changes and changes in interest rates. a portion of the liabilities associated with the deferred compensation plans supported by the trust is also impacted by changes in the market price of our common stock and certain market indices. changes in the value of the liabilities have the effect of partially offsetting the impact of changes in the value of the trust. both the change in the fair value of the trust and the change in the value of the liabilities are recognized on our statements of earnings in other unallocated, net and were not material for the year ended december 31, 2015. 65 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors. an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. the outcome of one or more of these risks could have a material effect on our operating results, financial position, or cash flows. you should carefully consider the following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our common stock or debt securities. we depend heavily on contracts with the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business. we derived 71% of our total net sales from the u.s. government in 2016, including 59% from the department of defense (dod). we expect to continue to derive most of our sales from work performed under u.s. government contracts. those contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. consequently, contracts are often partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of funds obligated on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs unless and until additional funds are obligated to the contract. as discussed within the industry considerations in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the u.s. government continues to face significant deficit reduction pressures and it is likely that discretionary spending by the u.s. government will remain constrained for a number of years. under such conditions, large or complex programs, which consist of multiple contracts and phases, are potentially subject to increased scrutiny. there is also uncertainty regarding actions that may be taken by the new presidential administration in light of recent criticisms of the f-35 program and other large defense programs. president trump has publicly expressed concerns over past cost overruns and delays in the program as well as overall program cost and has publicly requested that a competitor price out an alternative. defense secretary mattis recently ordered a review of the program, including a comparison review of the f-35c carrier variant with a fourth generation alternative. our chairman, president and chief executive officer has had discussions with president trump on the importance of the f-35 program and our commitment to cut costs. however, we may continue to face pressure to reduce costs from the new presidential administration relating to the f-35 program and ongoing contract negotiations. the f-35 is our largest program and represented 23% of our total net sales in 2016 and is expected to represent a higher percentage of our sales in future years. a decision to cut spending or reduce planned orders would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. given the size and complexity of the f-35 program, we anticipate that there will be continual reviews related to aircraft performance, program schedule, cost, and requirements as part of the dod, congressional, and international partners oversight and budgeting processes. current program challenges include, but are not limited to, supplier and partner performance, software development, level of cost associated with life cycle operations and sustainment and warranties, successfully negotiating and receiving funding for production contracts on a timely basis, executing future flight tests and findings resulting from testing and operating the aircraft. additionally, the u.s. government may also enter into unilateral contract actions, which they recently did on the f-35 program. this unilateral contract action obligates us to perform under terms and conditions imposed by the u.s. government. unilateral contract actions could negatively affect profit and cash flows, and establish a precedent for future contracts. based upon our diverse range of defense, homeland security and information technology products and services, we believe that this makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term effect on our business. however, termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. potential changes in funding priorities may afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on or replacement programs. while we would expect to compete and be well positioned as the incumbent on existing programs, we may not be successful or the replacement programs may be funded at lower levels. 10 table of contents we are subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations. our business and our reputation could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with these laws. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and impose certain risks and costs on our business. a violation of specific laws and regulations, by us, our employees, others working on our behalf, a supplier or a venture partner, could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, suspension or debarment from bidding on or being awarded contracts, loss of our ability to export products or services and civil or criminal investigations or proceedings. in some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are different from those typically found in commercial transactions. for example, the u.s. government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts either at its convenience or for default based on our performance. upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. upon termination for convenience of a cost-reimbursable contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. allowable costs would include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. the amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. we attempt to ensure that adequate funds are available by notifying the customer when its estimated costs, including those associated with a possible termination for convenience, approach levels specified as being allotted to its programs. as funds are typically appropriated on a fiscal-year basis and as the costs of a termination for convenience may exceed the costs of continuing a program in a given fiscal year, occasionally programs do not have sufficient funds appropriated to cover the termination costs were the government to terminate them for convenience. under such circumstances, the u.s. government could assert that it is not required to appropriate additional funding. a termination arising out of our default may expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, notwithstanding the quality of our services as a subcontractor. in the case of termination for default, the u.s. government could make claims to reduce the contract value or recover its procurement costs and could assess other special penalties. however, under such circumstances we have rights and remedial actions under laws and the federal acquisition regulation (far). in addition, certain of our u.s. government contracts span one or more base years and multiple option years. the u.s. government generally has the right not to exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period for various reasons. however, the u.s. government may exercise option periods, even for contracts for which it is expected that our costs may exceed the contract price or ceiling. u.s. government agencies, including the defense contract audit agency, the defense contract management agency and various agency inspectors general, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, its cost structure, its business systems and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. the u.s. government has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. additionally, any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. we have unaudited and/or unsettled incurred cost claims related to past years, which places risk on our ability to issue final billings on contracts for which authorized and appropriated funds may be expiring. if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or terminations, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, penalties, fines and suspension, or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. similar government oversight exists in most other countries where we conduct business. our profitability and cash flow may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs, our performance, our ability to control costs and evolving u.s. government procurement policies. our profitability and cash flow may vary materially depending on the types of government contracts undertaken, the nature of products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees is determined, particularly under award and incentive-fee contracts. 11 table of contents our backlog includes a variety of contract types that are intended to address changing risk and reward profiles as a program matures. contract types include cost-reimbursable, fixed-price incentive-fee, fixed-price and time-and-materials contracts. contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges are typically cost-reimbursable. under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. in these cases, the associated financial risks primarily relate to a reduction in fees and the program could be cancelled if cost, schedule or technical performance issues arise. other contracts in backlog are for the transition from development to production (e.g., lrip contracts), which includes the challenge of starting and stabilizing a manufacturing production and test line while the final design is being validated. these generally are cost-reimbursable or fixed-price incentive-fee contracts. under a fixed-price incentive-fee contract, the allowable costs incurred are eligible for reimbursement but are subject to a cost-share arrangement, which affects profitability. generally, if our costs exceed the contract target cost or are not allowable under the applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. there are also contracts for production, as well as operations and maintenance of the delivered products, that have the challenge of achieving a stable production and delivery rate, while maintaining operability of the product after delivery. these contracts are mainly fixed-price, although some operations and maintenance contracts are time-and-materials type. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price regardless of the actual costs we incur. we have to absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. the failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements may result in reduced fees or losses and affect our financial performance in that period. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, our operating results could be adversely affected, particularly if we are unable to justify an increase in contract value to our customers. cost overruns or the failure to perform on existing programs also may adversely affect our ability to retain existing programs and win future contract awards. the u.s. government is currently pursuing and implementing policies that could negatively impact our profitability. changes in procurement policy favoring more incentive-based fee arrangements, different award fee criteria or government contract negotiation offers based upon the customer view of what our costs should be (as compared to our actual costs) may affect the predictability of our profit rates. the u.s. government unilateral contract action definitizing the lrip 9 f-35 contract reflected differing u.s. government and lockheed martin views as to costs, entitlement to performance-based payments and profitability and could negatively impact the profitability and cash flows of lrip 9, lrip 10 (which remains an undefinitized contract) and future production contracts. our customers are subject to pressures that may result in a change in contract types referenced above earlier in a program maturity than is traditional. an example of this is the use of fixed-price incentive-fee contracts for recent lrip contracts on the f-35 program while the development contract is being performed concurrently. our customers also may pursue non-traditional contract provisions in negotiation of contracts. for example, changes resulting from the f-35 development contract may need to be implemented on the production contracts (including the lrip contracts), a concept referred to as concurrency, which may require us to pay for a portion of the concurrency costs. an example of customer budget pressures includes the u.s. government requiring that bid and proposal costs be included in general and administrative costs, rather than charged directly to contracts in certain circumstances. other policies could negatively impact our working capital and cash flow. for example, the government has expressed a preference for requiring progress payments rather than performance based payments on new fixed-price contracts, which if implemented, delays our ability to recover a significant amount of costs incurred on a contract and thus affects the timing of our cash flows. increased competition and bid protests in a budget-constrained environment may make it more difficult to maintain our financial performance and customer relationships. we are experiencing increased competition while, at the same time, our customers are facing budget constraints, trying to do more with less by cutting costs, identifying more affordable solutions, performing certain work internally rather than hiring a contractor, and reducing product development cycles. it is critical we maintain strong customer relationships and seek to understand the priorities of their requirements in this price competitive environment. in international sales, we face substantial competition from both u.s. manufacturers and international manufacturers whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for their products. additionally, our competitors are also focusing on increasing their international sales to partially mitigate the 12 table of contents effect of reduced u.s. government budgets. to remain competitive, we consistently must maintain strong customer relationships and provide superior performance, advanced technology solutions and service at an affordable cost and with the agility that our customers require to satisfy their mission objectives. a substantial portion of our business is awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government increasingly has relied upon competitive contract award types, including indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity and other multi-award contracts, which have the potential to create pricing pressure and increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids and proposals. in addition, multi-award contracts require that we make sustained efforts to obtain task orders under the contract. the competitive bidding process entails substantial costs and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. additionally, the former is&amp;gs programs we moved to rms and space systems in the fourth quarter of 2015 and retained could experience increased pricing pressures which could have a negative impact on our ability to win future follow-on contracts. following award, we may encounter significant expenses, delays, contract modifications or bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. unsuccessful bidders are more frequently protesting in the hope of being awarded a subcontract for a portion of the work in return for withdrawing the protest. bid protests could result in significant expenses to us, contract modifications or even loss of the contract award. even where a bid protest does not result in the loss of a contract award, the resolution can extend the time until the contract activity can begin and, as a result, delay our recognizing sales. we also may not be successful in our efforts to protest or challenge any bids for contracts that were not awarded to us and we could incur significant time and expense in such efforts. we are the prime contractor on most of our contracts and if our subcontractors, suppliers or teaming agreement or venture partners fail to perform their obligations, our performance and our ability to win future business could be harmed. for most of our contracts we rely on other companies to provide materials, major components and products, and to perform a portion of the services that we provide to our customers. such arrangements may involve subcontracts, teaming arrangements, ventures or supply agreements with other companies upon which we rely (contracting parties). there is a risk that we may have disputes with our contracting parties, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed, the workshare provided to that party, customer concerns about the other party performance, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders, or our hiring the personnel of a subcontractor, teammate or venture partner or vice versa. in addition, changes in the economic environment, including defense budgets and constraints on available financing, may adversely affect the financial stability of our contracting parties and their ability to meet their performance requirements or to provide needed supplies on a timely basis as might their inability to perform profitably in the current highly competitive and budget constrained environment. a failure, for whatever reason, by one or more of our contracting parties to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis, according to specifications, or at all may affect our ability to perform our obligations and require that we transition the work to other companies. contracting party performance deficiencies may result in additional costs or delays in product deliveries and affect our operating results and could result in a customer terminating our contract for default or convenience. a default termination could expose us to liability and affect our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. additionally, our efforts to increase the efficiency of our operations and improve the affordability of our products and services could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain suppliers. international sales may pose different risks. in 2016, 27% of our total net sales were from international customers. we have a strategy to grow international sales over the next several years, inclusive of sales of f-35 aircraft to our international partners and other countries. international sales are subject to numerous political and economic factors, regulatory requirements, significant competition, taxation, and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. our exposure to such risks increased as a result of our acquisition of sikorsky and our increased ownership interest in awe and may further increase if our international sales grow as we anticipate. our international business is conducted through foreign military sales (fms) contracted through the u.s. government or by direct commercial sales (dcs) with international customers. in 2016, approximately 66% of our sales to international customers were fms and about 34% were dcs. these transaction types differ as fms transactions represent sales by the u.s. government to international governments and our contract with the u.s. government is subject to far. by contrast, dcs transactions represent sales directly to another international government or commercial customer. all sales to international customers are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to anti-corruption, import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, taxation, repatriation of earnings, exchange 13 table of contents controls, the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws, and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. while we have stringent policies in place to comply with such laws and regulations, failure by us, our employees or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, including suspension, debarment from bidding for or performing government contracts, or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on us. we frequently team with international subcontractors and suppliers who are also exposed to similar risks. while international sales, whether contracted as fms or dcs, present risks that are different and potentially greater than those encountered in our u.s. business, dcs with international customers may impose even greater risks. dcs transactions involve commercial relationships with parties with whom we have less familiarity and where there may be significant cultural differences. additionally, international procurement rules and regulations, contract laws and regulations, and contractual terms differ from those in the u.s. and are less familiar to us. international regulations may be interpreted by foreign courts less bound by precedent and with more discretion; these interpretations frequently have terms less favorable to us than the far. export and import, tax and currency risk also may be increased for dcs with international customers. while these risks are potentially greater than those encountered in our u.s. business, we seek to price our products and services commensurate with the risk profile on dcs with international customers. our international business is highly sensitive to changes in regulations, political environments or security risks that may affect our ability to conduct business outside of the u.s., including those regarding investment, procurement, taxation and repatriation of earnings. our international business also may be impacted by changes in foreign national priorities, foreign government budgets, global economic conditions, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. sales of military products are also affected by defense budgets and u.s. foreign policy. additionally, the timing of orders from our international customers can be less predictable than for our u.s. customers and may lead to fluctuations in the amount reported each year for our international sales. in conjunction with defense procurements, some international customers require contractors to comply with industrial cooperation regulations, including entering into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements. offset agreements may require in-country purchases, technology transfers, local manufacturing support, investments in foreign joint ventures and financial support projects as an incentive or as a condition to a contract award. in some countries, these offset agreements may require the establishment of a venture with a local company, which must control the venture. the costs to satisfy our offset obligations are included in the estimates of our total costs to complete the contract and may impact our profitability and cash flows. the ability to recover investments that we make is generally dependent upon the successful operation of ventures that we do not control and may involve products and services that are dissimilar to our business activities. in these and other situations, we could be liable for violations of law for actions taken by these entities such as laws related to anti-corruption, import and export, taxation, and anti-boycott restrictions. offset agreements generally extend over several years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements which are typically subjective and can be outside our control. our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions. we routinely experience various cybersecurity threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure, unauthorized attempts to gain access to our company sensitive information, denial-of-service attacks, threats to the security of our facilities and employees, and threats from terrorist acts, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and venture partners. we may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage. the threats we face vary from attacks common to most industries to more advanced and persistent, highly organized adversaries who target us because we protect national security information. if we are unable to protect sensitive information, our customers or governmental authorities could question the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures. due to the evolving nature of these security threats, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. although we work cooperatively with our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, venture partners and acquisitions to seek to minimize the impact of cyber threats, other security threats, or business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these entities, which may affect the security of our information. these entities have varying levels of cybersecurity expertise and safeguards, and their relationships with government contractors, such as lockheed martin, may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber threats we face. the costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. additionally, some cyber technologies we develop under contract for our customers, particularly those related to 14 table of contents homeland security, may raise potential liabilities related to intellectual property and civil liberties, including privacy concerns, which may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to our customers, our future financial results, our reputation, or our stock price. additionally, such events could result in the loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts or other intellectual property; early obsolescence of our products and services; or contractual penalties. if we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures, equity investments and other transactions successfully or if acquired entities or equity investments fail to perform as expected, our financial results, business and future prospects could be harmed. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate companies, and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, ventures and equity investments. we seek to identify acquisition or investment opportunities that will expand or complement our existing products and services or customer base, at attractive valuations. we often compete with others for the same opportunities. to be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies; negotiate transaction terms; complete and close complex transactions; integrate acquired companies and employees; and realize anticipated operating synergies efficiently and effectively. acquisition, divestiture, venture and investment transactions often require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. unidentified or identified but un-indemnified pre-closing liabilities could affect our future financial results, particularly successor liability under procurement laws and regulations such as the false claims act or truth in negotiations act, anti-corruption, tax, import-export and technology transfer laws which provide for civil and criminal penalties and the potential for debarment. we also may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, employee retention, transaction-related or other litigation, and other liabilities. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. ventures, or noncontrolling equity investments, operate under shared control with other parties. under the equity method of accounting for nonconsolidated ventures and investments, we recognize our share of the operating profit of these ventures in our results of operations. our operating results may be affected by the performance of businesses over which we do not exercise control, which includes the inability to influence strategic decisions that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our joint ventures face many of the same risks and uncertainties as we do. the most significant impact of our equity investments is in our space systems business segment where approximately 25% of its 2016 operating profit was derived from its share of earnings from equity method investees, particularly that in united launch alliance (ula). approximately 3% and 7% of our aeronautics and rms business segments operating profit was derived from their shares of earnings from equity method investees, including their share in advanced military maintenance, repair and overhaul center llc venture (ammroc). the acquired sikorsky business may underperform relative to our expectations, the transaction may cause our financial results to differ from our expectations or the expectations of the investment community and we may not be able to achieve anticipated cost savings or other anticipated synergies. on november 6, 2015, we completed the acquisition of sikorsky. we believe that we will benefit from the integration of our products and technologies with those of the sikorsky business and realize synergies and potential for long-term growth, as well as expanded capabilities and customer relationships as a result of the acquisition. however, we may not be able to capture anticipated synergies, tax benefits, cost savings, and business opportunities in the time frame anticipated, or at all. changes to the federal statutory tax rate could have an impact on the tax benefits we expect in connection with the acquisition. due to the recent acquisition and valuation, the carrying value and fair value of our sikorsky reporting unit are currently closely aligned. therefore, any business deterioration, contract cancelations or terminations, or market pressures could cause our sales, earnings and cash flows to decline below current projections and could cause goodwill to be impaired. additionally, sikorsky may not perform as expected, or demand for its products may be adversely affected by global economic conditions, including oil and gas trends that are outside of their control. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial statements and to effectively prevent fraud. as further described, in part ii item 9a controls and procedures management has concluded that, because of a material weakness in internal controls within sikorsky processes (specifically, sikorsky did not adequately identify, 15 table of contents design and implement appropriate process-level controls for its processes and appropriate information technology controls for its information technology systems), which we acquired on november 6, 2015 and which operates as a business unit of our rms business segment, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of december 31, 2016. we have and we will continue to enhance our controls at our sikorsky business unit and we expect that the remediation of this material weakness will be completed prior to the end of fiscal year 2017. however, we cannot be certain that these measures will be successful or that we will be able to prevent future significant deficiencies or material weaknesses. material inaccuracies in our financial statements would impair their value to management and our board of directors in making decisions as to the operation of our business, could impair our reputation and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on investor confidence in our financial statements, the trading price of our stock and our access to capital. the divestiture of our information systems &amp; global solutions business may not achieve the intended benefits and may expose us to potential risks and liabilities. we completed the divestiture of our is&amp;gs business on august 16, 2016, which merged with a subsidiary of leidos holdings inc. (leidos), in a reverse morris trust transaction. as part of the transaction, we also completed an exchange offer that resulted in a reduction of our outstanding common stock. we undertook the divestiture because we believed that this business could achieve greater growth and create more value for customers and stockholders outside of lockheed martin and that we could benefit from greater strategic focus of our resources and management efforts. we may not benefit as expected from the increased focus on our core business, strategic programs and objectives made possible by the split-off or from the reduced exposure to a shorter product cycle services business. additionally, the value of the transaction may also be reduced by potential liabilities related to post-closing adjustments and indemnities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. if the divestiture of our information systems &amp; global solutions business or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the divestiture are determined to be taxable in whole or in part, we and our stockholders may incur significant tax liabilities. in connection with the divestiture of our is&amp;gs business, we obtained opinions of outside tax counsel that the merger and exchange offer will qualify as tax-free transactions to us and our stockholders, except to the extent that cash was paid to lockheed martin stockholders in lieu of fractional shares. we have not sought or obtained a ruling from the internal revenue service (irs) on each of the tax consequences of the transaction. an opinion of counsel is not binding on the irs or the courts, which may disagree with the opinion. in addition, the tax opinions are subject to customary qualifications and based on factual representations. even if the merger and exchange offer otherwise qualified as tax-free transactions, they may become taxable to us if certain events occur that affect either lockheed martin or leidos. while leidos has agreed not to take certain actions that could cause the transactions not to qualify as tax-free transactions and is generally obligated to indemnify us against any tax consequences if it breaches this agreement, the potential tax liabilities could have a material adverse effect on us if we were not entitled to indemnification or if the indemnification obligations were not fulfilled. if the merger or exchange offer were determined to be taxable, we could be subject to a substantial tax liability, and each u.s. holder of our common stock who participated in the exchange offer could be treated as exchanging the lockheed martin shares surrendered for abacus shares in a taxable transaction. there can be no assurance that we will continue to increase our dividend or to repurchase shares of our common stock at current levels. the payment of cash dividends and share repurchases is subject to limitations under applicable law and the discretion of our board of directors and is determined in light of then current conditions, including earnings, other operating results and capital requirements. decreases in asset values or increases in liabilities, including liabilities associated with benefit plans and assets and liabilities associated with taxes, can reduce stockholders equity. a deficit in stockholders equity could limit our ability to pay dividends and make share repurchases under maryland law in the future. in addition, the timing and amount of share repurchases under board approved share repurchase plans is within the discretion of management and will depend on many factors, including results of operations, capital requirements as well as applicable law. our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology products and systems. new technologies may be untested or unproven. failure of some of these products and services could result in extensive loss of life or property damage. accordingly, we also may incur liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including combat and air mobility aircraft, missile and space systems, command and control 16 table of contents systems, cybersecurity, homeland security and training programs. in some but not all circumstances, we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers, either through u.s. government indemnifications under public law 85-804 or the price-anderson act, qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, contractual provisions or otherwise. we endeavor to obtain insurance coverage from established insurance carriers to cover these risks and liabilities. the amount of insurance coverage that we maintain may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities. existing coverage may be cancelled while we remain exposed to the risk, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. for example, we are limited in the amount of insurance we can obtain to cover certain natural hazards, such as earthquakes. we have significant operations in geographic areas prone to this risk, such as sunnyvale, california. even if insurance coverage is available, we may not be able to obtain it at a price or on terms acceptable to us. additionally, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage terms or the insolvency of one or more of our insurance carriers may significantly affect the amount or timing of our cash flows. substantial costs resulting from an accident; failure of or defect in our products or services; natural catastrophe or other incident; or liability arising from our products and services in excess of any legal protection, indemnity, and our insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or not obtained) could adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows, or operating results. any accident, failure of, or defect in our products or services, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. it also could affect the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. pension funding and costs are dependent on several economic assumptions which if changed may cause our future earnings and cash flow to fluctuate significantly as well as affect the affordability of our products and services. many of our employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans, and we provide certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees. the impact of these plans on our u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap) earnings may be volatile in that the amount of expense we record for our postretirement benefit plans may materially change from year to year because those calculations are sensitive to funding levels as well as changes in several key economic assumptions, including interest rates, rates of return on plan assets, and other actuarial assumptions including participant longevity (also known as mortality), employee turnover, as well as the timing of cash funding. changes in these factors, including actual returns on plan assets, may also affect our plan funding, cash flow and stockholders equity. in addition, the funding of our plans and recovery of costs on our contracts, as described below, also may be subject to changes caused by legislative or regulatory actions. we have taken certain actions over the last few years to mitigate the impact the plans may have on our cash flows and earnings, including amendments made in june 2014 to a significant portion of our qualified and nonqualified defined benefit pension plans for non-union employees to freeze future retirement benefits. however, the impact of these actions on our cash flow and earnings may be less than anticipated or may be offset by other factors such as changes in actuarial assumptions and plan asset investment returns. with regard to cash flow, we have made substantial cash contributions to our plans as required by the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), as amended by the pension protection act of 2006 (ppa). we generally are able to recover these contributions related to our plans as allowable costs on our u.s. government contracts, including fms, but there is a lag between when we contribute cash to our plans under pension funding rules and recover it under u.s. government cost accounting standards (cas). effective february 2012, the cas rules were revised to harmonize the measurement and period assignment of the pension cost allocable to government contracts with the ppa (cas harmonization). in 2013, the cost impact of cas harmonization started being phased in with the goal of better aligning the cas pension cost and erisa funding requirements being fully achieved in 2017. the enactment of the highway and transportation funding act of 2014 and bipartisan budget act of 2015 increased the interest rate assumption used to determine our cas pension costs, which has the effect of lowering the recovery of pension contributions during the affected periods as it decreases our cas pension costs. for more information on how these factors could impact earnings, financial position, cash flow and stockholders equity, see critical accounting policies postretirement benefit plans in management discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations and note 11 postretirement plans included in our notes to consolidated financial statements. environmental costs could affect our future earnings as well as the affordability of our products and services. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. we are involved in environmental remediation at some of our facilities, some of our former facilities, and at 17 table of contents third-party-owned sites where we have been designated a potentially responsible party. in addition, we could be affected by future regulations imposed or claims asserted in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment or natural resources. we have an ongoing comprehensive sustainability program to reduce the effects of our operations on the environment. we manage and have managed various u.s. government-owned facilities, and portions of u.s. government-owned facilities, on behalf of the u.s. government. at such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs historically have been the responsibility of the u.s. government. we have relied, and continue to rely with respect to past practices, upon u.s. government funding to pay such costs, notwithstanding efforts by some u.s. government representatives to limit this responsibility. although the u.s. government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance typically is borne by either the u.s. government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. some environmental laws include criminal provisions. an environmental law conviction could affect our ability to be awarded future, or perform existing, u.s. government contracts. we have incurred and will continue to incur liabilities under various federal, state, local and foreign statutes for environmental protection and remediation. the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. among the variables management must assess in evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites generally are the status of site assessment, extent of the contamination, impacts on natural resources, changing cost estimates, evolution of technologies used to remediate the site, continually evolving governmental environmental standards and cost allowability issues, including varying efforts by the u.s. government to limit allowability of our costs in resolving liability at third party-owned sites. for information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent probable and estimable, see critical accounting policies environmental matters in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 14 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies of our consolidated financial statements. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by gaap, we estimate loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. for a description of our current legal proceedings, see item 3 legal proceedings and note 14 legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies included in our notes to consolidated financial statements. our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products and technologies and maintain a qualified workforce. many of the products and services we provide are highly engineered and involve sophisticated technologies, with related complex manufacturing and system integration processes. our customers requirements change and evolve regularly. accordingly, our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends, develop and manufacture innovative products and service and bring those offerings to market quickly at cost-effective prices. additionally, due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon our ability to maintain a workforce with the requisite skills in multiple areas including: engineering, science, manufacturing, information technology, cybersecurity, business development and strategy and management. our operating performance is also dependent upon personnel who hold security clearances and receive substantial training in order to work on certain programs or tasks. additionally, as we expand our operations internationally, it is increasingly important to hire and retain personnel with relevant experience in local laws, regulations, customs, traditions and business practices. we face a number of challenges that may affect personnel retention such as our endeavors to increase the efficiency of our operations and improve the affordability of our products and services such as workforce reductions and consolidating and relocating certain operations. additionally as our workforce ages, our demographic continues to shift toward a higher proportion of employees nearing retirement. in june 2014, we amended certain of our defined benefit pension plans for non-union employees to freeze future retirement benefits, which may encourage retirement-eligible personnel to elect to retire earlier than anticipated. the freeze takes place in two stages and will be completed january 1, 2020. 18 table of contents to the extent that we lose experienced personnel, it is critical that we develop other employees, hire new qualified personnel, and successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining personnel with the requisite skills or clearances. we increasingly compete with commercial technology companies outside of the aerospace and defense industry for qualified technical, cyber and scientific positions as the number of qualified domestic engineers is decreasing and the number of cyber professionals is not keeping up with demand. to the extent that these companies grow at a faster rate or face fewer cost and product pricing constraints, they may be able to offer more attractive compensation and other benefits to candidates or our existing employees. to the extent that the demand for skilled personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees; we could experience difficulty in performing our contracts if we were unable to do so. we also must manage leadership development and succession planning throughout our business. while we have processes in place for management transition and the transfer of knowledge, the loss of key personnel, coupled with an inability to adequately train other personnel, hire new personnel or transfer knowledge, could significantly impact our ability to perform under our contracts. approximately 21% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions. historically, where employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. this does not assure, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to negotiate renewals of our existing collective bargaining agreements in the future. if we encounter difficulties with renegotiations or renewals of collective bargaining arrangements or are unsuccessful in those efforts, we could incur additional costs and experience work stoppages. union actions at suppliers can also affect us. any delays or work stoppages could adversely affect our ability to perform under our contracts, which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. our estimates and projections may prove to be inaccurate. the accounting for some of our most significant activities is based on judgments and estimates, which are complex and subject to many variables. for example, accounting for sales using the percentage-of-completion method requires that we assess risks and make assumptions regarding schedule, cost, technical and performance issues for each of our thousands of contracts, many of which are long-term in nature. additionally, we initially allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses based on a preliminary assessment of the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. for significant acquisitions we may use a one-year measurement period to analyze and assess a number of factors used in establishing the asset and liability fair values as of the acquisition date and could result in adjustments to asset and liability balances. another example is the $10.8 billion of goodwill assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2016 from previous acquisitions, which represents approximately 23% of our total assets. these goodwill assets are subject to annual impairment testing and more frequent testing upon the occurrence of certain events or significant changes in circumstances that indicate goodwill may be impaired. if we experience changes or factors arise that negatively affect the expected cash flows of a reporting unit, we may be required to write off all or a portion of the reporting unit related goodwill assets. future changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, including those with retroactive effect, and audits by tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our tax expense and affect profitability and cash flows. for example, recent proposals to lower the u.s. corporate income tax rate would require us to reduce our net deferred tax assets upon enactment of new tax legislation, with a corresponding material, one-time, non-cash increase in income tax expense, but our income tax expense and payments would be materially reduced in subsequent years. our net deferred tax assets as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 were $6.6 billion and $6.1 billion, based on a 35% federal statutory income tax rate, and primarily relate to our postretirement benefit plans. if legislation reducing the federal statutory income tax rate to 15% had been enacted at december 31, 2016, our net deferred tax assets would have been reduced by $3.8 billion and we would have recorded a corresponding one-time, non-cash increase in income tax expense of $3.8 billion. this additional expense would be less if the legislation phased in the tax rate reduction or if the final rate was higher than 15%. the amount of net deferred tax assets will change periodically based on several factors, including the measurement of our postretirement benefit plan obligations and actual cash contributions to our postretirement benefit plans. actual financial results could differ from our judgments and estimates. see critical accounting policies in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 1 significant accounting policies included in our notes to consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of our significant accounting policies and use of estimates. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we maintain active relationships with a broad and diverse group of u.s. and international financial institutions. we believe that they provide us with sufficient access to the general and trade credit we require to conduct our business. we continue to closely monitor the financial market environment and actively manage counterparty exposure to minimize the potential impact from adverse developments with any single credit provider while ensuring availability of, and access to, sufficient credit resources. our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market prices on certain equity securities. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate long-term debt. the estimated fair value of our outstanding debt was $16.2 billion at december 31, 2016 and the outstanding principal amount was $15.3 billion, excluding unamortized discounts and issuance costs of $1.0 billion. a 10% change in the level of interest rates would not have a material impact on the fair value of our outstanding debt at december 31, 2016. we use derivative instruments principally to reduce our exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we do not enter into or hold derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes. we transact business globally and are subject to risks associated with changing foreign currency exchange rates. we enter into foreign currency hedges such as forward and option contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the british pound sterling, the euro, the canadian dollar and the australian dollar. these contracts hedge forecasted foreign currency transactions in order to mitigate fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we designate foreign currency hedges as cash flow hedges. we also are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through our borrowing activities. for fixed rate borrowings, we may use variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings indexed to libor in order to reduce the amount of interest paid. these swaps are designated as fair value hedges. for variable rate borrowings, we may use fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting variable rate borrowings to fixed rate borrowings in order to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes on earnings. these swaps are designated as cash flow hedges. we also may enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting, which are intended to mitigate certain economic exposures. the classification of gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair values of derivatives is dependent on our intended use of the derivative and its resulting designation. adjustments to reflect changes in fair values of derivatives attributable to the effective portion of hedges are either reflected in earnings and largely offset by corresponding adjustments to the hedged items or reflected net of income taxes in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are attributable to the ineffective portion of the hedges, or of derivatives that are not considered to be highly effective hedges, if any, are immediately recognized in earnings. the aggregate notional amount of our outstanding interest rate swaps at december 31, 2016 and 2015 was $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion. the aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency hedges at december 31, 2016 and 2015 was $4.0 billion and $4.1 billion. at december 31, 2016 and 2015, the net fair value of our derivative instruments was not material (see note 16 fair value measurements ) included in our notes to consolidated financial statements). a 10% appreciation or devaluation of the hedged currency as compared to the level of foreign exchange rates for currencies under contract at december 31, 2016 would not have a material impact on the aggregate net fair value of such contracts or our consolidated financial statements. we evaluate the credit quality of potential counterparties to derivative transactions and only enter into agreements with those deemed to have acceptable credit risk at the time the agreements are executed. our foreign currency exchange hedge portfolio is diversified across several banks. we periodically monitor changes to counterparty credit quality as well as our concentration of credit exposure to individual counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 59 table of contents we maintain a separate trust that includes investments to fund certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans. as of december 31, 2016, investments in the trust totaled $1.2 billion and are reflected at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet in other noncurrent assets. the trust holds investments in marketable equity securities and fixed-income securities that are exposed to price changes and changes in interest rates. a portion of the liabilities associated with the deferred compensation plans supported by the trust is also impacted by changes in the market price of our common stock and certain market indices. changes in the value of the liabilities have the effect of partially offsetting the impact of changes in the value of the trust. both the change in the fair value of the trust and the change in the value of the liabilities are recognized on our consolidated statements of earnings in other unallocated, net and were not material for the year ended december 31, 2016. 60 table of contents