quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company earnings are affected by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of its issuance of short-term debt. the company from time to time utilizes interest rate swaps to mitigate the effects of interest rate changes; none were 17 outstanding at december 31, 2001. risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in short-term market interest rates. if short-term market interest rates average 10% more during the next twelve months, there would be no material adverse impact on the company results of operations based on variable rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2001. at december 31, 2001, the fair value of the company fixed rate long-term obligations approximated carrying value. although the company conducts business in foreign countries, international operations are not material to the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. additionally, foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material to the company results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2001. accordingly, the company is not currently subject to material foreign currency exchange rate risks from the effects that exchange rate movements of foreign currencies would have on the company future costs or on future cash flows it would receive from its foreign investment. to date, the company has not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 18quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our earnings are affected by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of our issuance of short-term debt. we from time to time utilize interest rate swaps to mitigate the effects of interest rate changes; none were outstanding at december 31, 2003. risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in short-term market interest rates. if short-term market interest rates average 10% more during the next 12 months, there would be no materially adverse impact on our results of operations based on variable-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2003. at december 31, 2003, the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term obligations approximated carrying value. although we conduct business in foreign countries, international operations are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. additionally, foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material to our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2003. accordingly, we are not currently subject to material foreign currency exchange rate risks from the effects that exchange rate movements of foreign currencies would have on our future costs or on future cash flows we would receive from our foreign investment. to date, we have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the price and availability of diesel fuel are subject to fluctuations due to changes in the level of global oil production, seasonality, weather and other market factors. historically, we have been able to recover a majority of fuel price increases from our customers in the form of fuel surcharges. we cannot predict the extent to which high fuel price levels will continue in the future or the extent to which fuel surcharges could be collected to offset such increases. as of december 31, 2003, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel price fluctuations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors item 1b. unresolved staff comments item 2. properties item 3. legal proceedings item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders part ii item 5. market for registrant common stock and related security holder matters item 6. selected financial data item 7. management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk item 8. financial statements and supplementary data item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure item 9a. controls and procedures item 9b. other information part iii item 10. directors and executive officers of registrant item 11. executive compensation item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related security holder matters item 13. certain relationships and related transactions item 14. principal accountant fees and services part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules signatures index to consolidated financial statements 2 forward-looking statements this report, including documents which are incorporated by reference, and other documents which we file periodically with the securities and exchange commission (sec), contains statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements. such statements relate to our predictions concerning future events or operations and are within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, subject to risks, and should be viewed with caution. these statements are based on our belief or interpretation of information currently available. stockholders and prospective investors are cautioned that actual results and future events may differ materially from the forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. some of the factors and events that are not within our control and that could have a material impact on future operating results include: general economic and business conditions, competition and competitive rate fluctuations, cost and availability of diesel fuel, ability to attract and retain qualified drivers, a loss of one or more major customers, interference with or termination of our relationships with certain railroads, insurance costs and availability, claims expense, retention of key employees, terrorist attacks or actions, acts of war, adverse weather conditions, new or different environmental or other laws and regulations, increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment and the ability of revenue equipment manufacturers to perform in accordance with agreements for guaranteed equipment trade-in values. current and future changes in fuel prices could result in significant fluctuations of quarterly earnings. you should understand that many important factors, in addition to those listed above, could impact us financially. our operating results may fluctuate as a result of these and other risk factors or events as described in our filings with the sec. some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from estimates or projections contained in the forward-looking statements are described under risk factors in item 1a. we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason. part i item 1. business overview we are one of the largest surface transportation companies in north america. j.b. hunt transport services, inc. (jbht) is a publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries and associated companies, provides a wide range of transportation services to a diverse group of customers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. we were incorporated in arkansas on august 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. our service offerings include transportation of full truckload containerizable freight, which we directly transport utilizing our company-controlled revenue equipment and company drivers or independent contractors. this full truckload freight may be transported entirely by truck over roads and highways, or may be moved, in part, by rail. we have arrangements with most of the major north american rail carriers to transport truckload freight in containers and trailers. we also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor and systems services that are tailored to meet individual customers requirements and typically involve long-term contracts. these arrangements are known as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, home deliveries, freight handling, specialized equipment and network design. we also have a 37% ownership interest in a global transportation logistics company, transplace, inc. (tpi). tpi is co-owned by five large transportation companies and provides supplemental sales, management and freight movement services through arrangements with a large number of common carriers. our business operations are primarily organized through three distinct, but complementary, business segments. these segments include full truckload dry-van (jbt), intermodal (jbi) and dedicated contract services (dcs). in addition, we operated a logistics business segment from 1992 until mid-2000. in 2000, we, along with a number of other publicly held transportation companies, 3 contributed our existing logistics business to a new, commonly owned company, transplace, inc. (tpi). our business is somewhat seasonal with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during the months of august through early november. our dcs segment is subject to less seasonal variation than our jbt and jbi segments. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2005, our consolidated revenue totaled $3.13 billion, after the elimination of inter-segment business. of the total, $1.28 billion, or 41%, was generated by our jbi business segment. our jbt segment generated $1.02 billion, or 32%, of total revenue and dcs represented $844 million, or 27%. additional general information about us is available from our internet website at www.jbhunt.com. we make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website including our annual report on form 10-k, our proxy statement and our earnings releases. our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, committee charters for our board of directors and other corporate policies. our mission and strategy we forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategy. working in concert, we drive out cost, add value and function as an extension of our customers enterprise. we believe that our operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders. recent focus during the past five years, we have taken significant steps to re-establish a primary focus on the profitability of our three business segments. in each segment we have implemented capacity management decision making processes that result in the deployment of our assets where we believe they will generate more profit. we continually focus on replacing less-profitable freight with higher-margin freight and lanes. selective pricing actions and ensuring that we properly charge for all services provided have also been areas of major focus. we have also worked to ingrain safety into our corporate culture, which has reduced our accident and injury costs during the past several years. operating segments segment information is included in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. jbt segment our primary transportation service offerings classified in this segment include full truckload, dry-van freight, which is predominantly transported utilizing company-controlled tractors operating over roads and highways. we pick up our freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. most of our loads are transported entirely by our company-owned tractors and employee drivers, or by independent contractors (ics) who agree to transport freight in our trailers. we also assign freight to be handled by third-party motor carriers other than ics. this type of freight movement typically results in our billing the customer for all applicable freight charges and, in turn, paying the third party for their portion of the transportation services provided. this type of service usually results in our recognition of revenue for the entire billing and the payment to the third-party being classified as purchased transportation expense. we operate utilizing certain canadian authorities, allowing us to transport freight to and from all points in the continental united states to quebec, british columbia and ontario. we have authorization to operate directly in all the canadian provinces, but to date we have served limited points in canada, primarily through interchange operations with canadian motor carriers. in late 2000, we began utilizing ics in the jbt segment and at december 31, 2005, we had 1,142 ics operating in the jbt segment. jbt revenue for calendar year 2005 was $1.02 billion, compared with $928 million in 2004. at december 31, 2005, the jbt segment operated 4,368 company-controlled tractors and employed 5,882 4 people, 4,895 of whom were drivers. a portion of our jbt segment non-driver employees provide freight solicitation, order entry and other operational support services to our other two segments. we record inter-segment credits and charges to properly reflect these inter-segment support services. jbi segment the transportation service offerings of our jbi segment utilize arrangements with most major north american rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. our jbi segment began operations in 1989 with a unique partnership with the former santa fe railway (now the bnsf railway company), a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint marketing environment. essentially, jbi draws on the intermodal (also known as container on flatcar ) services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment and performs the pickups and deliveries ( drayage ) for customers at the origin and destination rail terminal locations. we may directly provide the drayage service at either the origin or destination rail ramp utilizing our company-controlled tractors, or we may purchase these services from third parties. jbi provides seamless coordination of the rail and over-the-road transport movements for our customers and delivers a single billing for the complete door-to-door service. our intermodal program has grown from 20 loads in late 1989 to nearly 600,000 in 2005. jbi operates 23,755 company-controlled containers systemwide. the entire fleet is comprised of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. jbi also manages a fleet of 1,341 company-owned tractors and 1,719 company drivers in support of intermodal operations. we also began utilizing ics in our intermodal segment during 2005. we had 16 ics operating in our jbi business segment at december 31, 2005. at december 31, 2005, the total jbi employee count was 1,951, including the 1,719 drivers. revenue for the jbi segment in calendar year 2005 was $1.28 billion, compared with $1.12 billion in 2004. as previously announced, an arbitration process with the bnsf railway company (bni) was concluded during the third quarter of 2005. in accordance with the settlement terms, we paid bni $25.8 million in the third quarter of 2005. normal commercial business activity continued between the parties during the approximate 15-month arbitration process, and normal business operations have continued since the final settlement. dcs segment since 1992, we have offered dedicated contract carriage as a service option. dcs segment operations specialize in the design, development and execution of customer-specific fleet solutions. capitalizing on advanced systems and technologies, dcs offers transportation engineering solutions that support private fleet conversion, dedicated fleet creation and transportation system augmentation. dcs operations typically provide customized services that are governed by long-term contracts and currently include dry-van, flatbed, temperature-controlled, dump trailers and local inner-city operations. dcs operations focus on delivering recognizable customer value through best-in-class service, cost control and guaranteed dedicated capacity. dcs utilizes a proprietary methodology known as customer value delivery (cvd) to create, measure and communicate value created for each customer. dcs leverages the jbht freight network to reposition equipment near outbound domiciles, thereby reducing inefficient empty miles and system cost. dcs also frequently finds synergy in shared resources with the jbt and jbi segments, including terminals, drivers, maintenance shops, bulk fuel locations and trailer pools providing further economies of scale. dcs revenue for calendar year 2005 was $844 million, compared with $760 million in 2004. in early 2004, we began utilizing ics in the dcs segment and at december 31, 2005, we had 152 ics operating in the dcs segment. at december 31, 2005, the dcs segment operated 4,771 company-controlled and 87 customer-owned tractors, and employed 5,834 people, 5,144 of whom were drivers. 5 logistics business and associated company we officially began offering transportation logistics services in 1992 through a wholly owned subsidiary, j.b. hunt logistics, inc. (jbl). jbl services frequently included an arrangement whereby a shipper might outsource a substantial portion of its entire distribution and transportation process to one organization. the jbl segment business included a wide range of comprehensive transportation and management services, including experienced professional managers, information and optimization technology, and the actual design or redesign of system solutions. a new logistics customer or service arrangement frequently required a significant amount of up-front analysis and design time, during which alternatives were considered and custom systems and software were developed. effective july 1, 2000, we contributed our existing jbl segment business to a newly formed company, tpi. tpi provides supplemental logistics sales and management support and also has arrangements with approximately 2,800 motor carriers to provide capacity to transport freight. our share of tpi financial results are included on a one-line, non-operating item included on our consolidated statements of earnings entitled equity in loss of associated company. operations in mexico we have provided transportation services to and from mexico since 1989. these services typically involve equipment interchange operations with various mexican motor carriers. as previously reported, we sold a joint venture interest with a mexican transportation company in 2002. we received all remaining funds due in connection with this sale during 2005. this transaction had no significant impact on our earnings. we continue to provide transportation services to and from mexico primarily by utilizing the services of a variety of mexican carriers. marketing and operations we transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including forest and paper products, building materials, general merchandise, food and beverages, chemicals and automotive parts. our customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our three business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. we provide a broad range of transportation services to larger shippers that seek to use a limited number of core carriers. our largest customer in 2005 was wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for approximately 15% of our total revenue. we generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. we do have some sales and marketing functions managed at the business-unit level, particularly for our dcs segment. in accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. in recent years, we have re-established a primary focus on improving the profitability of each of our business segments and charging a fair price for all services provided. people we believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. as of december 31, 2005, we had approximately 16,370 employees, including 11,758 company drivers. we also had arrangements with 1,310 ics to transport freight in our trailing equipment. in addition, we employed 1,170 mechanics and 3,439 office personnel at the end of 2005. none of our employees is represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. our industry has periodically had a difficult time attracting and retaining enough qualified truck drivers. it is also common for the driver turnover rate of individual carriers to exceed 100%. it has been our practice during the past few years to compensate our drivers at an above-average level in order to attract a higher caliber of experience and minimize turnover. during 2005, we increased company driver and ic compensation in order to attract and retain an adequate supply of qualified drivers. while we have not, to date, experienced significant operational disruptions due to driver shortages, we expect 6 the costs to recruit, train and retain company drivers and ics will continue to rise in the foreseeable future. revenue equipment as of december 31, 2005, we operated 10,480 company-controlled tractors. in addition, our 1,310 ics operate their own tractors, but transport freight in our trailing equipment. we operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our jbt and jbi fleets. based on our customers preferences and the actual business application, our dcs fleet is more diversified. we believe operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers and lowers maintenance expense. at december 31, 2005, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.2 years, our trailers averaged 5.0 years of age and our containers averaged 6.8 years. we perform routine servicing and preventative maintenance of our equipment at most of our regional terminal facilities. we typically operate newer revenue equipment in our jbt segment to minimize downtime and maximize utilization. our jbi segment utilizes high-cube containers, which can be separated from the chassis and double-stacked on rail cars. we are currently in the process of expanding our container fleet and reconditioning our chassis fleet. the composition of our dcs trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, and even straight or dump trucks. effective october 1, 2002, the environmental protection agency (epa) required that most newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines comply with certain new emission standards. we initially limited our new tractor purchases while we tested these new 2002 epa-compliant engines. at december 31, 2005, we were operating approximately 5,900 tractors with these 2002 rule-compliant engines. these engines experience an approximate 4% to 5% lower fuel efficiency and are also expected to require higher annual maintenance costs. effective with model-year 2007 tractors, the epa has mandated even lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. we once again are planning our new equipment purchases to accommodate these new standards, but allow adequate testing of the new engines. the 2007 epa-compliant engines will be equipped with a particulate trap and will require more costly ultra-low-sulfur diesel (ulsd) fuel. the epa estimates that ulsd fuel will cost approximately $.04 to $.05 more per gallon. we are unable at this time to determine the increase in acquisition and operating costs of these new 2007 epa-compliant engines. competition and the industry according to the most recently available study conducted by the american trucking associations (ata), all modes of domestic freight carriers in the united states generated approximately $610 billion of revenue in 2003. of this total, truck transportation represented about 87%, or $531 billion. ata also estimated that approximately 54% of the nation 2003 truck revenue related to for-hire carriers, while 46% related to private carriers. as of july 2004, there were more than 573,000 private, for-hire, u.s. mail and other u.s. interstate motor carriers on file with the federal motor carrier safety administration (fmcsa). the top 10 for-hire truckload carriers only generate about 3% of the total revenue in this segment, and we represent approximately 1% of this segment revenue. the market in which we compete is frequently referred to as highly fragmented and includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. while we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country. we compete with other freight transportation carriers primarily in terms of on-time pickup and delivery service, availability of drivers, and revenue equipment and price. regulation our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) and the federal motor carrier safety administration, and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. the dot periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our 7 compliance with all federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the dot. our operations into and out of canada and mexico are also subject to regulation by those countries. effective october 1, 2005, driver hours-of-service regulations (hos) were revised. the majority of these rule changes had initially been effective january 4, 2004. these collective changes were the most significant changes to driver hos in more than 40 years. in general, the new rules require a driver to take at least eight consecutive hours in the sleeper berth during a ten-hour off-duty period. these new rules primarily affect short-haul and multiple-stop freight operations and had a minor negative impact on our overall operations and financial results. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this form 10-k and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. also note that additional risks not currently identified or known to us could also negatively impact our business or financial results. our business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, excess capacity in the trucking industry, surpluses in the market for used equipment, interest rates, fuel taxes, license and registration fees, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors. we are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad-debt losses. in addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. we operate in a competitive and somewhat fragmented industry. numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. some of these factors include: we compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or maintain our profit margins. many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called core carriers as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. 8 many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. certain of our customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations. the trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size. advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2005, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 40% of our revenue. our largest customer is wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for approximately 15% of our total revenue in 2005. our jbt and jbi segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. while our dcs segment business may involve a written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or that they will continue at the same levels. a reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. we depend on third parties in the operation of our business. our intermodal business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. while we have agreements with various class i railroads, the majority of our business travels on the burlington northern santa fe and the norfolk southern railroad. the inability to utilize one or more of these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. we also utilize the services of a number of third-party dray carriers to perform a significant number of our origin and destination pickups and deliveries. in addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the united states through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. periodically, the trucking industry experiences substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including ics. a shortage of qualified company drivers and ics has proven to be particularly severe during the past few years. in spite of continued increases in driver compensation and recruiting costs, the industry is currently experiencing a significant shortage of drivers. if we are unable to continue attracting an adequate number of drivers or contract with enough independent contractors, we could be required to significantly increase our driver compensation package or let trucks sit idle, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. during 2005, we self-insured a portion of our claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage and health claims for amounts up to the first $2 million for auto accidents and $1 million for workers compensation. effective january 1, 2006, the self-insured portion of our claims exposure for personal injury and workers compensation was reduced to $500,000. if the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. also, we maintain insurance above the amounts for which we self-insure with licensed insurance companies. insurance carriers have recently raised premiums for most trucking 9 companies. as a result, our insurance and claims expenses could increase when some of our current coverages expire on july 31, 2006. if these expenses increase, and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. the internal revenue service (irs) has proposed to disallow the tax benefits associated with certain sale-and-leaseback transactions. as previously disclosed, the internal revenue service (irs) has proposed to disallow the tax benefits associated with certain sale-and-leaseback transactions, which we entered into in 1999. based on events occurring subsequent to december 31, 2004, we established a reserve for a contingent tax liability of $33.6 million at december 31, 2004. the liability for this contingency, which included estimated interest expense, was included on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2004, as a long-term liability. we accrued approximately $2.7 million of interest expense during 2005 related to this contingency. we continue to believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law for which we received advice and opinions from our then external public accountants and attorneys prior to entering into these transactions, and we continue to vigorously defend against the irs position using all administrative and legal processes available. if the irs were successful in disallowing 100% of the tax benefit from this transaction, the total ultimate impact on liquidity could be approximately $44 million, excluding interest. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. we operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous wastes disposal, among others. we also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. if we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. we operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. the dot and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety and financial reporting. we are audited periodically by the dot to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. if we were found to be out of compliance, the dot could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. effective october 1, 2005, driver hos regulations were revised. the majority of these rule changes had initially been effective january 4, 2004. these collective changes were the most significant changes to driver hos in more than 40 years. in general, the new rules require a driver to take at least eight consecutive hours in the sleeper berth during a 10-hour off-duty period. these new rules primarily affect short-haul and multiple-stop freight operations and had a minor negative impact on our overall operations and financial results. effective october 1, 2002, the epa required that most newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines comply with certain new emission standards. at december 31, 2005, we were operating approximately 5,900 tractors with these 2002 rule-complaint engines. in addition to higher initial purchase prices, these tractors have also experienced an average 4% to 5% reduction in fuel efficiency. effective with model-year 2007 tractors, the epa has mandated even lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. we are planning our new equipment purchases to 10 accommodate these new standards, but also to allow adequate time for testing of the new engines. we are unable to predict the impact these new standards will have on our future operations and business results. rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. fuel and fuel taxes currently represent our third-largest general expense category. during the past several years, fuel cost per gallon has varied significantly, with prices at times changing as much as $.20 to $.25 per gallon between consecutive months. we have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. however, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. in addition, we incur additional costs when fuel prices rise that cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. as of december 31, 2005, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel price fluctuations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we had $124 million of debt outstanding at december 31, 2005, under our revolving line of credit. the interest rate applicable to this agreement is based on either the prime rate or libor. our earnings would be affected by changes in these short-term interest rates. risk can be quantified by measuring the financial impact of a near-term adverse increase in short-term interest rates. at our current level of borrowing, a one percent increase in our applicable rate would reduce annual pretax earnings by $1.2 million. we have no interest rate derivatives in place at december 31, 2005, to mitigate this risk. although we conduct business in foreign countries, international operations are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. additionally, foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material to our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2005. accordingly, we are not currently subject to material foreign currency exchange rate risks from the effects that exchange rate movements of foreign currencies would have on our future costs or on future cash flows we would receive from our foreign investment. to date, we have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the price and availability of diesel fuel are subject to fluctuations due to changes in the level of global oil production, seasonality, weather and other market factors. historically, we have been able to recover a majority of fuel price increases from our customers in the form of fuel surcharges. we cannot predict the extent to which high fuel price levels will continue in the future or the extent to which fuel surcharges could be collected to offset such increases. as of december 31, 2005, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel price fluctuations.risk factors 7 we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason. part i item 1. business overview we are one of the largest surface transportation companies in north america. j.b. hunt transport services, inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries and associated companies, provides a wide range of transportation services to a diverse group of customers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. unless otherwise indicated by the context, we, us, our and jbht refer to j.b. hunt transport services, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. we were incorporated in arkansas on august 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. our service offerings include transportation of full-load freight, which we directly transport in multi-modal arrangements utilizing our company-owned revenue equipment and company drivers, independent contractors, or third parties. this full-load freight may be transported entirely by truck over roads and highways, or may be moved, in part, by rail. we have arrangements with most of the major north american rail carriers to transport freight in containers and trailers. we also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor and systems services that are tailored to meet individual customers requirements and typically involve long-term contracts. these arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized equipment and network design. we also provide integrated capacity and comprehensive transportation services and solutions by utilizing a network of thousands of reliable third-party carriers. while these unrelated outside carriers at times supplement our dry van, full-load operations, they also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload and other specialized equipment, drivers and services. in addition, we have a 37% ownership interest in a global transportation logistics company, transplace, inc. (tpi). tpi is co-owned by five large transportation companies and provides supplemental sales, management and freight-movement services through arrangements with a large number of common carriers. 3 our business operations are primarily organized through three distinct, but complementary, business segments. these segments include intermodal (jbi), dedicated contract services (dcs), and full-load dry-van (jbt). our business is somewhat seasonal with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during the months of august through early november. our dcs segment is subject to less seasonal variation than our jbi and jbt segments. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2006, our consolidated revenue totaled $3.3 billion, after the elimination of inter-segment business. of the total, $1.4 billion, or 42%, was generated by our jbi business segment. our jbt segment generated $1.0 billion, or 30%, of total revenue and dcs represented $915 million, or 28%. additional general information about us is available from our internet website at www.jbhunt.com . we make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website, including our annual report on form 10-k, our proxy statement and our earnings releases. our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, committee charters for our board of directors and other corporate policies. our mission and strategy we forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategy. working in concert, we drive out cost, add value and function as an extension of our customers enterprise. we believe that our operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders. recent focus during the past several years, we have taken significant steps to re-establish a primary focus on the profitability of our three business segments. in each segment we have implemented capacity management decision making processes that result in the deployment of our assets where we believe they will generate more profit. we continually focus on replacing less-profitable freight with higher-margin freight and lanes. selective pricing actions and ensuring that we properly charge for all services provided have also been areas of major focus. in addition, a continuing shortage of qualified drivers and fundamental changes in shipper supply-chain transportation logistics have resulted in the conversion of freight from traditional random truckload to intermodal and dedicated operations. we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and conduct all of our operations as safely as possible. operating segments segment information is included in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. jbi segment the transportation service offerings of our jbi segment utilize arrangements with most major north american rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. our jbi segment began operations in 1989 with a unique partnership with the former santa fe railway (now the bnsf railway company), a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint marketing environment. essentially, jbi draws on the intermodal (also known as container on flatcar ) services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment and performs the pickups and deliveries ( drayage ) for customers at the origin and destination rail terminal locations. we may directly provide the drayage service at either the origin or destination rail ramp utilizing our company-owned tractors, or we may purchase these services from third parties. jbi provides seamless coordination of the rail and over-the-road transport movements for our customers and delivers a single billing for the complete door-to-door service. 4 our intermodal program has grown from 20 loads in late 1989 to nearly 630,000 in 2006. jbi operates 27,622 company-controlled containers systemwide. the entire fleet comprises 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. jbi also manages a fleet of 1,551 company-owned tractors and 1,946 company drivers in support of intermodal operations. we also began utilizing independent contractors (ics) in our intermodal segment during 2005. we had 23 ics operating in our jbi business segment at december 31, 2006. at december 31, 2006, the total jbi employee count was 2,189, including the 1,946 drivers. revenue for the jbi segment in calendar year 2006 was $1.43 billion, compared with $1.28 billion in 2005. as previously announced, an arbitration process with the bnsf railway company (bni) was concluded during the third quarter of 2005. in accordance with the settlement terms, we paid bni $25.8 million in the third quarter of 2005. in addition, this settlement also resulted in higher rail purchase transportation expenses effective october 1, 2005. normal commercial business activity continued with bni during the approximate 15-month arbitration process, and normal business operations have continued since the final settlement. dcs segment since 1992, we have offered dedicated contract carriage as a service option. dcs segment operations specialize in the design, development and execution of customer-specific fleet solutions. capitalizing on advanced systems and technologies, dcs offers transportation engineering solutions that support private fleet conversion, dedicated fleet creation and transportation system augmentation. dcs operations typically provide customized services that are governed by long-term contracts and currently include dry-van, flatbed, temperature-controlled, dump trailers and local inner-city operations. dcs operations focus on delivering recognizable customer value through best-in-class service, cost control and guaranteed dedicated capacity. dcs utilizes a proprietary methodology known as customer value delivery (cvd) to create, measure and communicate value generated for each customer. dcs leverages the jbht freight network to reposition equipment near outbound domiciles, thereby reducing inefficient empty miles and system cost. dcs also frequently finds synergy in shared resources with the jbt and jbi segments, including terminals, drivers, maintenance shops, bulk fuel locations and trailer pools providing further economies of scale. dcs revenue for calendar year 2006 was $915 million, compared with $844 million in 2005. in early 2004, we began utilizing ics in the dcs segment and at december 31, 2006, we had 122 ics operating in the dcs segment. at december 31, 2006, the dcs segment operated 5,177 company-controlled and 59 customer-owned tractors and employed 6,242 people, 5,496 of whom were drivers. jbt segment our primary transportation service offerings classified in this segment include full-load, dry-van freight, which is predominantly transported utilizing company-controlled tractors operating over roads and highways. we pick up our freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. most of our loads are transported entirely by our company-owned tractors and employee drivers, or by independent contractors who agree to transport freight in our trailers. we also assign freight to be handled by third-party motor carriers other than ics. this type of freight movement typically results in our billing the customer for all applicable freight charges and, in turn, paying the third party for their portion of the transportation services provided. this type of service usually results in our recognition of revenue for the entire billing and the payment to the third-party being classified as purchased transportation expense. we operate under the approval of certain canadian authorities, allowing us to transport freight to and from all points in the continental united states to quebec, british columbia and ontario. we have authorization to operate directly in substantially all the canadian provinces, but to date we have served limited points in canada, primarily through interchange operations with canadian motor carriers. in late 2000, we began utilizing ics in the jbt segment and at december 31, 2006, we had 962 ics operating in the jbt segment, some of whom were leasing company-controlled tractors. jbt revenue for calendar year 2006 was $1.01 billion, compared with $1.02 billion in 2005. at december 31, 2006, the jbt 5 segment operated 4,232 company-owned tractors and employed 5,916 people, 4,981 of whom were drivers. a portion of our jbt segment non-driver employees provide freight solicitation, order entry and other operational support services to our other two segments. we record inter-segment credits and charges to properly reflect these inter-segment support services. logistics business and associated company effective july 1, 2000, we contributed an existing logistics segment business to a newly formed company, transplace, inc. (tpi). tpi provides supplemental logistics sales and management support and also has arrangements with approximately 2,700 motor carriers to provide capacity to transport freight. our share of tpi financial results is included on a one-line, non-operating item included on our consolidated statements of earnings entitled equity in loss of associated company. operations in mexico we have provided transportation services to and from mexico since 1989. these services typically involve equipment interchange operations with various mexican motor carriers. as previously reported, we sold a joint venture interest with a mexican transportation company in 2002. we received all remaining funds due in connection with this sale during 2005. this transaction did not significantly impact our earnings. we continue to provide transportation services to and from mexico primarily by utilizing the services of a variety of mexican carriers. marketing and operations we transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including forest and paper products, building materials, general merchandise, food and beverages, chemicals and automotive parts. our customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our three business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. we provide a broad range of transportation services to larger shippers that seek to use a limited number of core carriers. our largest customer in 2006 was wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenue. we generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. we do have some sales and marketing functions managed at the business-unit level, particularly for our dcs segment. in accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. in recent years, we have re-established a primary focus on improving the profitability of each of our business segments and charging a fair price for all services provided. people we believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. as of december 31, 2006, we had approximately 17,150 employees, including 12,423 company drivers, 1,175 mechanics and 3,548 office personnel. we also had arrangements with 1,107 ics to transport freight in our trailing equipment. none of our employees is represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. our industry has periodically had a difficult time attracting and retaining enough qualified truck drivers. it is also common for the driver turnover rate of individual carriers to exceed 100%. it has been our practice during the past few years to compensate our drivers at an above-average level in order to attract a higher caliber of experience and minimize turnover. during 2006 and 2005, we increased company driver and ic compensation in order to attract and retain an adequate supply of qualified drivers. while we have not, to date, experienced significant operational disruptions due to driver shortages, we expect the costs to recruit, train and retain company drivers and ics will continue to rise in the foreseeable future. 6 revenue equipment as of december 31, 2006, we operated 10,961 company-owned tractors. in addition, our 1,107 ics operate their own tractors, but transport freight in our trailing equipment. we operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our jbi and jbt fleets. based on our customers preferences and the actual business application, our dcs fleet is more diversified. we believe operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers and lowers maintenance expense. at december 31, 2006, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.2 years, our trailers averaged 5.7 years of age and our containers averaged 6.5 years. we perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance of our equipment at most of our regional terminal facilities. our jbi segment utilizes high-cube containers, which can be separated from the chassis and double-stacked on rail cars. we are currently in the process of expanding our container fleet and reconditioning our chassis fleet. the composition of our dcs trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks and dump trailers. we typically operate newer revenue equipment in our jbt segment to minimize downtime and maximize utilization. effective with model-year 2007 tractors, the epa has mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. we are planning our new equipment purchases to accommodate these new standards but allow adequate testing of the new engines. the 2007 epa-compliant engines will be equipped with a particulate trap and will require more costly ultra-low-sulfur diesel (ulsd) fuel. the epa estimates that ulsd fuel will cost approximately $.04 to $.05 more per gallon. in 2006, we began testing the 2007 model-year engines in a group of our tractors. we are unable at this time to determine the increase in acquisition and operating costs of these new 2007 epa-compliant engines. competition and the industry the market in which we compete is frequently referred to as highly fragmented and includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. while we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country. we compete with other freight transportation carriers primarily in terms of on-time pickup and delivery service, availability of drivers, and revenue equipment and price. regulation our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) and the federal motor carrier safety administration, and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. the dot periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with all federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the dot. our operations into and out of canada and mexico are also subject to regulation by those countries. effective october 1, 2005, driver hours-of-service regulations (hos) were revised. the majority of these rule changes had initially been effective january 4, 2004. these collective changes were the most significant changes to driver hos in more than 40 years. in general, the new rules require a driver to take at least eight consecutive hours in the sleeper berth during a ten-hour off-duty period. these new rules primarily affect short-haul and multiple-stop freight operations and had a minor negative impact on our overall operations and financial results. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this form 10-k and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially 7 and adversely affected by any of these risks. also note that additional risks not currently identified or known to us could also negatively impact our business or financial results. our business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, excess capacity in the trucking industry, interest rates, fuel taxes, license and registration fees, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, interference with or termination of our relationships with certain railroads, terrorist attacks or actions, acts of war, adverse weather conditions, increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment, surpluses in the market for used equipment, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors. we are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad-debt losses. in addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. we operate in a competitive and somewhat fragmented industry. numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. some of these factors include: we compete with many other transportation carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or maintain our profit margins. many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called core carriers as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. certain of our customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations. the trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size. advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments. 8 we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2006, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 40% of our revenue. our largest customer is wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenue in 2006. our jbt and jbi segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. while our dcs segment business may involve a written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or that they will continue at the same levels. a reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. we depend on third parties in the operation of our business. our jbi business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. while we have agreements with various class i railroads, the majority of our business travels on the burlington northern santa fe and the norfolk southern railroad. the inability to utilize one or more of these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. we also utilize the services of a number of third-party dray carriers to perform a significant number of our origin and destination pickups and deliveries. in addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the united states through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. periodically, the trucking industry experiences substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including ics. a shortage of qualified company drivers and ics has proven to be particularly severe during the past few years. in spite of continued increases in driver compensation and recruiting costs, the industry is currently experiencing a shortage of drivers. if we are unable to continue attracting an adequate number of drivers or contract with enough independent contractors, we could be required to significantly increase our driver compensation package or let trucks sit idle, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. during 2005, we self-insured a portion of our claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage and health claims for amounts up to the first $2 million for auto accidents and $1 million for workers compensation. during 2006, the self-insured portion of our claims exposure for all claims was reduced to $500,000. if the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. the self-insured portion of our claims will also be $500,000 during 2007. we purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. insurance carriers have recently raised premiums for most trucking companies. as a result, our insurance and claims expenses could increase when our current coverage expires. if these expenses increase, and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. the internal revenue service (irs) has proposed to disallow the tax benefits associated with certain sale-and-leaseback transactions. as previously disclosed, the internal revenue service (irs) has proposed to disallow the tax benefits associated with certain sale-and-leaseback transactions, which we entered into in 1999. based on events occurring subsequent to december 31, 2004, we established a reserve for a contingent tax liability of $33.6 million at december 31, 2004. the liability for this contingency, which includes estimated interest, is included on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2006, as a long-term liability. we have accrued approximately $3.0 million of interest expense during 2006 related to this contingency. we 9 continue to believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law for which we received advice and opinions from our then external public accountants and attorneys prior to entering into these transactions, and we continue to vigorously defend against the irs position using all administrative and legal processes available. if the irs were successful in disallowing 100% of the tax benefit from this transaction, the total ultimate impact on liquidity could be approximately $44 million, excluding interest. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. we operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous wastes disposal, among others. we also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. if we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. we operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. the dot and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety and financial reporting. we are audited periodically by the dot to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. if we were found to be out of compliance, the dot could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. effective october 1, 2005, driver hos regulations were revised. the majority of these rule changes had initially been effective january 4, 2004. these collective changes were the most significant changes to driver hos in more than 40 years. in general, the new rules require a driver to take at least eight consecutive hours in the sleeper berth during a 10-hour off-duty period. these new rules primarily affect short-haul and multiple-stop freight operations and had a minor negative impact on our overall operations and financial results. effective with model-year 2007 tractors, the epa has mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. we are planning our new equipment purchases to accommodate these new standards but also to allow adequate time for testing of the new engines. in 2006, we began testing the 2007 model-year engines in a group of our tractors. we are unable to predict the impact these new standards will have on our future operations and business results. rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. fuel and fuel taxes currently represent our third-largest general expense category. during the past several years, fuel cost per gallon has varied significantly, with prices at times changing as much as $0.20 to $0.25 per gallon between consecutive months. we have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. however, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. in addition, we incur additional costs when fuel prices rise that cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. as of december 31, 2006, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel price fluctuations. 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 27we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason. part i item 1. business overview we are one of the largest surface transportation companies in north america. j.b. hunt transport services, inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries and affiliated companies, provides a wide range of transportation services to a diverse group of customers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. unless otherwise indicated by the context, we, us, our and jbht refer to j.b. hunt transport services, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. we were incorporated in arkansas on august 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. our service offerings include transportation of full-load freight, which we directly transport in multimodal arrangements utilizing our company-owned revenue equipment and company drivers, independent contractors, or third parties. this full-load freight may be transported entirely by truck over roads and highways, or may be moved, in part, by rail. we have arrangements with most of the major north american rail carriers to transport freight in containers and trailers. we also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor and systems services that are tailored to meet individual customers requirements and typically involve long-term contracts. these arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized equipment and network design. we also provide integrated capacity and comprehensive transportation services and solutions by utilizing a network of thousands of reliable third-party carriers. while these unrelated outside carriers at times supplement our dry van, full-load operations, they also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload and other specialized equipment, drivers and services. in addition, we have a 37% ownership interest in a global transportation logistics company, transplace, inc. (tpi). tpi is co-owned by five large transportation companies and provides supplemental sales, management and freight-movement services through arrangements with a large number of common carriers. 3 our business operations are primarily organized through four distinct, but complementary, business segments. these segments include intermodal (jbi), dedicated contract services (dcs), full-load dry-van (jbt) and integrated capacity solutions (ics). our business is somewhat seasonal with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during the months of august through early november. our dcs segment is subject to less seasonal variation than our other segments. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2007, our consolidated revenue totaled $3.5 billion, after the elimination of inter-segment business. of the total, $1.7 billion, or 47%, was generated by our jbi business segment. our dcs segment represented $937 million, or 27%, of total revenue. our jbt segment generated $842 million, or 24%, and our ics segment generated $92 million, or 2%. additional general information about us is available from our internet website at www.jbhunt.com . we make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website, including our annual report on form 10-k, our proxy statement and our earnings releases. our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, committee charters for our board of directors and other corporate policies. our mission and strategy we forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategy. working in concert, we drive out cost, add value and function as an extension of our customers enterprise. we believe that our operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders. recent focus during the past several years, we have taken significant steps to re-establish a primary focus on the profitability of our business segments. in each segment we have implemented capacity-management decision-making processes that result in the deployment of our assets where we believe they will generate more profit. we continually focus on replacing less-profitable freight with higher-margin freight and lanes. selective pricing actions and ensuring that we properly charge for all services provided have also been areas of major focus. recent examples of actions taken to redeploy our assets include: 1) a decision to sell certain revenue equipment within our jbt business segment; 2) expanding the number of third-party carriers that provide us with transportation services, and 3) growing our ics business with new and existing customers. each of these are discussed in more detail in the operating segments sections. increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions. our intermodal service addresses both demands. we are also beginning to customize dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon emissions. efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and we are an environmental protection agency (epa) smartway sm transport partner. in addition, fundamental changes in shipper supply-chain transportation logistics have resulted in the conversion of freight from traditional random truckload to intermodal and dedicated operations. we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and conduct all of our operations as safely as possible. operating segments segment information is also included in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. jbi segment the transportation service offerings of our jbi segment utilize arrangements with most major north american rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. our jbi segment began operations in 1989 with a unique 4 partnership with the former santa fe railway (now the bnsf railway company), a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint marketing environment. essentially, jbi draws on the intermodal (also known as container on flatcar ) services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment and performs the pickups and deliveries ( drayage ) for customers at the origin and destination rail terminal locations. we may directly provide the drayage service at either the origin or destination rail ramp utilizing our company-owned tractors, or we may purchase these services from third parties. jbi provides seamless coordination of the rail and over-the-road transport movements for our customers and delivers a single billing for the complete door-to-door service. our intermodal program has grown from 20 loads in late 1989 to more than 738,000 in 2007. jbi operates 34,019 company-controlled containers system wide. the entire fleet comprises 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. jbi also manages a fleet of 1,795 company-owned tractors and 2,232 company drivers in support of intermodal operations. at december 31, 2007, the total jbi employee count was 2,494. revenue for the jbi segment in calendar year 2007 was $1.65 billion, compared with $1.43 billion in 2006. as previously announced, an arbitration process with the bnsf railway company (bni) was concluded during the third quarter 2005. in accordance with the settlement terms, we paid bni $25.8 million. in addition, this settlement also resulted in higher rail purchased transportation expenses effective october 1, 2005. normal commercial business activity continued with bni during the approximate 15-month arbitration process, and normal business operations have continued since the final settlement. dcs segment since 1992, we have offered dedicated contract carriage as a service option. our dcs segment operations specialize in the design, development and execution of customer-specific fleet solutions. capitalizing on advanced systems and technologies, dcs offers transportation engineering solutions that support private fleet conversion, dedicated fleet creation and transportation system augmentation. dcs operations typically provide customized services that are governed by long-term contracts and currently include dry-van, flatbed, temperature-controlled, dump trailers and local inner-city operations. dcs operations focus on delivering recognizable customer value through best-in-class service, cost control and guaranteed dedicated capacity. we utilize a proprietary methodology known as customer value delivery (cvd) to create, measure and communicate value generated for each customer. dcs leverages the jbht freight network to reposition equipment near outbound domiciles, thereby reducing inefficient empty miles and system cost. we also frequently find synergy in shared resources with the jbt and jbi segments, including terminals, drivers, maintenance shops, bulk fuel locations and trailer pools providing further economies of scale. dcs revenue for calendar year 2007 was $937 million, compared with $915 million in 2006. in early 2004, dcs began utilizing independent contractors (ics) and at december 31, 2007, we had 100 ics operating in this segment. at december 31, 2007, our segment operated 4,941 company-controlled and 92 customer-owned trucks and employed 6,041 people, 5,262 of whom were drivers. jbt segment our primary transportation service offerings classified in this segment include full-load, dry-van freight, which is predominantly transported utilizing company-controlled tractors operating over roads and highways. we pick up our freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. our loads are transported by our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or by ics who agree to transport freight in our trailers. this type of freight movement typically results in our billing the customer for all applicable freight charges and, in turn, paying the third party for their portion of the transportation services provided. this type of service usually results in our recognition of revenue for the entire billing and the payment to the third party being classified as purchased transportation expense. 5 we operate under the approval of certain canadian authorities, allowing us to transport freight to and from all points in the continental united states to quebec, british columbia and ontario. we have authorization to operate directly in substantially all the canadian provinces, but to date we have served limited points in canada, primarily through interchange operations with canadian motor carriers. in late 2000, we began utilizing ics in the jbt segment and at december 31, 2007, we had 978 ics operating in the jbt segment, some of whom were leasing company-owned tractors. jbt revenue for calendar year 2007 was $842 million, compared with $966 million in 2006. at december 31, 2007, the jbt segment operated 3,572 company-owned tractors and employed 4,517 people, 3,635 of whom were drivers. a portion of our jbt segment nondriver employees provide freight solicitation, order entry and other operational support services to our other two segments. we record inter-segment credits and charges to properly reflect these inter-segment support services. in december 2007, we entered into a plan to reduce the size of our jbt fleet and sell approximately 700 tractors and 2,500 trailers. this plan is consistent with our strategy to move our economic model from that of a primarily asset-based truckload carrier to an asset-light transportation company and our focus for growth and investment in segments that provide the desired margins. we expect to sell this equipment during calendar year 2008. as a result of the plan, we recorded a pretax charge of $8.4 million in december 2007 to reduce the carrying value of the revenue equipment to estimated fair value, less costs to sell. ics segment ics provides non-asset and asset-light transportation solutions to customers through relationships with third-party carriers and integration with jbht owned equipment. this type of freight movement typically results in our billing the customer for all applicable freight charges and, in turn, paying the third party for their portion of the transportation services provided. this type of service usually results in our recognition of revenue for the entire billing and the payment to the third party being classified as purchased transportation expense. ics services include flatbed, refrigerated and less-than-truckload (ltl), as well as a variety of dry van and intermodal solutions. ics revenue for calendar year 2007 was $92 million, compared with $42 million in 2006. at december 31, 2007, the ics segment employed approximately 120 people. prior to 2007, ics financial results were reported as part of the jbt segment. beginning january 1, 2007, we began reporting ics results separately. prior period segment information has been reclassified to reflect this change. logistics business and affiliated company effective july 1, 2000, we contributed an existing logistics segment business to a newly formed company, transplace, inc. (tpi). tpi is a non-asset-based third-party logistics provider offering a blend of logistics technology and transportation management services. our share of tpi financial results is included on a one-line, nonoperating item included on our consolidated statements of earnings titled equity in loss of affiliated company. operations in mexico we have provided transportation services to and from mexico since 1989. these services typically involve equipment interchange operations with various mexican motor carriers. we provide transportation services to and from mexico primarily by utilizing the services of a variety of mexican carriers. marketing and operations we transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including forest and paper products, building materials, general merchandise, food and beverages, chemicals and automotive parts. our customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. we provide a broad range of 6 transportation services to larger shippers that seek to use a limited number of core carriers. our largest customer in 2007 was wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for approximately 12% of our total revenue. we generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. we do have some sales and marketing functions managed at the business-unit level, particularly for our dcs segment. in accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. in recent years, we have re-established a primary focus on improving the profitability of each of our business segments and charging a fair price for all services provided. people we believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. as of december 31, 2007, we had 15,795 employees, including 11,129 company drivers, 1,177 mechanics and 3,489 office personnel. we also had arrangements with 1,084 ics to transport freight in our trailing equipment. none of our employees are represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. while we experienced improvements in 2007 relative to the past few years, our industry has periodically had a difficult time attracting and retaining enough qualified truck drivers. it is also common for the driver turnover rate of individual carriers to exceed 100%. it has been our practice to compensate our drivers at an above-average level in order to attract a higher caliber of experience and minimize turnover. while we have not, to date, experienced significant operational disruptions due to driver shortages, we expect the costs to recruit, train and retain company drivers and ics will continue to rise in the foreseeable future. revenue equipment as of december 31, 2007, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 10,308 units. in addition, we had 1,084 ics, who operate their own tractors, but transport freight in our trailing equipment. we operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our jbi and jbt fleets. based on our customers preferences and the actual business application, our dcs fleet is more diversified. we believe operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers and lowers maintenance expense. at december 31, 2007, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 3.0 years, our trailers averaged 6.4 years of age and our containers averaged 5.7 years. we perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance of our equipment at most of our regional terminal facilities. our jbi segment utilizes high-cube containers, which can be separated from the chassis and double-stacked on rail cars. we are currently in the process of expanding our container fleet and reconditioning our chassis fleet. the composition of our dcs trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks and dump trailers. we typically operate newer revenue equipment in our jbt segment to minimize downtime and maximize utilization. we primarily utilize third-party carriers tractor and trailing equipment for our ics segment; however, certain loads will utilize third-party carriers tractors powering our trailing equipment. in december 2007, we initiated a plan to sell certain revenue equipment in our jbt segment. this plan is an effort to continue moving our current economic model from that of a primarily asset-based truckload carrier of the past to an asset-light transportation company, while reducing the jbt fleet until acceptable margins and returns on invested capital are achieved. terms of the plan include approximately 700 tractors and 2,500 trailers to be sold during calendar year 2008. effective with model-year 2007 tractors, the epa mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. the 2007 epa-compliant engines require more costly ultra-low-sulfur diesel (ulsd) fuel. current market information and our experience to date indicates that ulsd fuel costs approximately $0.02 to $0.05 more per gallon. in 2006, we began testing the model-year 2007 7 engines in a group of our tractors. to date, we have seen a slight reduction in miles per gallon due to using ulsd fuel and these new 2007 epa-compliant engines, and an increase in operating costs. further, the acquisition costs of these new engines has increased by approximately 10%. a new set of more stringent emissions standards will become effective for newly-manufactured tractor engines in january 2010. competition and the industry the market in which we compete is frequently referred to as highly fragmented and includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. while we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country. we compete with other freight transportation carriers primarily in terms of on-time pickup and delivery service, availability of drivers, and revenue equipment and price. regulation our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) and the federal motor carrier safety administration (fmcsa), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. the dot periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with all federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the dot. our operations into and out of canada and mexico are also subject to regulation by those countries. in july 2007, the d.c. circuit court of appeals vacated certain provisions contained in the hours-of-service (hos) regulations, issued by the fmcsa. the 11-hour-limit rule, which restricts drivers to 11 hours of driving time within a 14-hour period from the start of the workday, and the 34-hour-restart rule, which allows drivers to restart their weekly on-duty calculations after 34 consecutive hours off duty, were vacated by the court decision. in september 2007, subsequent to petitions and motions by various groups, the court granted a 90-day delay in the effective date of its ruling. in december 2007, the fmcsa temporarily reinstated the vacated provisions until it gathers public comment and safety analysis information before issuing a final ruling. the public comment period extends until march 17, 2008. there has been no lapse in these rules since they were issued by the fmcsa in 2005. we continue to monitor the actions of the fmcsa. item 1a . risk factors in addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this form 10-k, and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. also note that additional risks not currently identified or known to us could also negatively impact our business or financial results. our business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, excess capacity in the trucking industry, interest rates, fuel taxes, license and registration fees, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, interference with, or termination of, our relationships with certain railroads, terrorist attacks or actions, acts of war, adverse weather conditions, increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment, surpluses in the market for used equipment, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors. we are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a 8 significant concentration of customers. economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad-debt losses. in addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. we operate in a competitive and somewhat fragmented industry. numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. some of these factors include: we compete with many other transportation carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or maintain our profit margins. many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called core carriers as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. certain of our customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations. consolidation in the transportation industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages related to their size. advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2007, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 38% of our revenue. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc., accounted for approximately 12% of our total revenue in 2007. our jbt and jbi segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. while our dcs segment business may involve a written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or that they will continue at the same levels. a reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. we depend on third parties in the operation of our business. our jbi business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. the majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. while we have agreements with various class i railroads, the majority of our business travels on the burlington northern santa fe and the norfolk southern railways. the inability to utilize one or more of these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. we also utilize the services of a number of third-party dray carriers to perform a significant number of our origin and destination pickups and deliveries. in addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the united 9 states through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business. our ics business segment utilizes third-party carriers. aside from periodic use of our trailing equipment to satisfy certain loads, we do not own the revenue equipment nor do we employ the drivers delivering the loads. the inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth. difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. periodically, the trucking industry experiences substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including ics. if we are unable to continue attracting an adequate number of drivers or contract with enough ics, we could be required to significantly increase our driver compensation package or let revenue equipment sit idle, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. during 2005, we self-insured a portion of our claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage and health claims for amounts up to the first $2 million for auto accidents and $1 million for workers compensation. during 2006 and 2007, the self-insured portion of our claims exposure for all claims was $500,000 per occurrence. if the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. the self-insured portion of our claims will be $500,000 per occurrence for personal injury and property damage and $1 million per occurrence for workers compensation during 2008. we purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. if these expenses increase, and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. we operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous wastes disposal, among others. we also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. if we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. we operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. the dot and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety and financial reporting. we are audited periodically by the dot to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. if we were found to be out of compliance, the dot could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. we continue to monitor actions taken by the fmcsa. significant changes in hours-of-service and other motor carrier safety regulations could negatively impact our operations due to lower driver productivity or increased capital expenditures for monitoring and recordkeeping equipment. 10 effective with model-year 2007 tractors, the epa mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. the 2007 epa-compliant engines require more costly ultra-low-sulfur diesel (ulsd) fuel. further, the acquisition costs of these new engines has increased by approximately 10%. a new set of more stringent emissions standards will become effective for newly-manufactured tractor engines in january 2010. while it is too early to assess the impact of the new standards, our fuel costs, operating costs and acquisition costs could be impacted. rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. during the past several years, fuel cost per gallon has varied significantly. we have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. however, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. in addition, we incur additional costs when fuel prices rise that cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. as of december 31, 2007, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations.risk factors 7 we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason. part i item 1. business overview we are one of the largest surface transportation companies in north america. j.b. hunt transport services, inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries and affiliated companies, provides a wide range of transportation services to a diverse group of customers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. unless otherwise indicated by the context, we, us, our and jbht refer to j.b. hunt transport services, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. we were incorporated in arkansas on august 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. our wide scope of scalable service offerings is relatively uncommon in the industry and ranges from full-load containerized freight transportation over highways and railroads to individual deliveries to small businesses and personal residences. we have arrangements with most of the major north american rail carriers to transport freight in containers and trailers. we also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor and systems services that are tailored to meet individual customer requirements and typically involve longer-term contracts. these arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized equipment and network design. we also provide integrated capacity and comprehensive transportation and logistics services and solutions by utilizing a network of thousands of reliable third-party carriers. while these unrelated outside carriers, at times, supplement our dry-van, full-load operations, they also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload (ltl) and other specialized equipment, drivers and services. our business operations are primarily organized through four distinct, but complementary, business segments. these segments include intermodal (jbi), dedicated contract services (dcs), full-load dry-van (jbt) and integrated capacity solutions (ics). our business is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher 3 table of contents freight volumes typically experienced during august through early november. our dcs segment is subject to less seasonal variation than our other segments. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2008, our consolidated revenue totaled $3.7 billion, after the elimination of intersegment business. of the total, 52% was generated by our jbi business segment, 25% by dcs, 18% by jbt and 5% by ics. additional general information about us is available from our internet website at www.jbhunt.com. we make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website, including our annual report on form 10-k, our proxy statement and our earnings releases. our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, board committee charters and other corporate policies. our mission and strategy we forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategy. working in concert, we drive out cost, add value and function as an extension of our customers enterprise. we believe that our operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders. recent focus our recent focus has been to maximize the return on our invested capital and to generate free cash flow to reduce outstanding debt. we continuously analyze where capital expenditures yield the best return and allocate funds to those business units and specific activities inside the business unit. unacceptable returns in various areas have caused us to reduce certain of these business models or exit those activities within the business model. our goal is to become more asset-light in the services we provide, but to continue to grow with new and existing customers by providing the most efficient transportation solutions to their supply chains. examples of steps taken to reach those goals include the continued contraction of the jbt business unit coupled with the growth in our ics business unit, the expansion of our eastern intermodal network, the repayment of approximately $280 million in outstanding debt in 2008, and the expansion of our new customer base. we also continue to direct our dedicated business unit toward providing best-in-class service in applications that require unique and specialized services ranging from retail and small-business replenishment to deliveries at personal residences. increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions. our intermodal service addresses both demands. we are customizing dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon emissions. efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and we are an environmental protection agency (epa) smartway sm transport partner. as always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as safely as possible. operating segments segment information is also included in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. jbi segment the transportation service offerings of our jbi segment utilize arrangements with most major north american rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. our jbi segment began operations in 1989 with a unique partnership with the former santa fe railway (now the bnsf railway company), a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint marketing environment. essentially, jbi draws on the intermodal (also known as container on flatcar ) services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment and performs the pickups and deliveries ( drayage ) for customers at the origin and destination rail terminal locations. we provide the drayage service at either the origin or destination rail ramp utilizing our company-owned tractors for the majority of our intermodal loads, but utilize third parties where economical. performing our own dray 4 table of contents services keeps costs lower and improves customer service. jbi provides seamless coordination of the rail and dray movements for our customers and delivers a single billing for the complete door-to-door service. our intermodal program has grown to more than 837,000 loads in 2008. jbi operates 39,161 company-controlled containers systemwide. the entire fleet comprises 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. jbi also manages a fleet of 2,124 company-owned tractors and 2,633 company drivers that provide efficiency to our intermodal operations. at december 31, 2008, the total jbi employee count was 2,913. revenue for the jbi segment in 2008 was $1.95 billion, compared with $1.65 billion in 2007. dcs segment dcs offers transportation services that generally are not provided by common truckload carriers or intermodal due to strict service requirements, specialized equipment, and intense driver and delivery personnel demands. our operations are managed on site by transportation professionals who work in concert daily with the customer and our drivers to ensure we deliver their product or service on time in a safe and cost-effective manner. all operations are governed by longer-term contracts that typically include fixed cost components related to dedicated specialized equipment and fuel surcharge programs on round-trip miles. these contracts combined with our best-in-class execution allow dcs to retain its customer base with consistent margins. dcs revenue for 2008 was $927 million, compared with $937 million in 2007. at december 31, 2008 our segment operated 4,454 company-controlled trucks, 101 customer-owned trucks, and 67 independent contractor trucks. the dcs segment employed 5,444 people at december 31, 2008. jbt segment the service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing tractors operating over roads and highways. we typically pick up freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. we use our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport freight in our trailers. at december 31, 2008, we had 841 independent contractors operating in the jbt segment, some of whom were leasing company-owned tractors. jbt revenue for 2008 was $676 million, compared with $842 million in 2007. at december 31, 2008, the jbt segment operated 2,489 company-owned tractors and employed 3,030 people, 2,750 of whom were drivers. in 2008, we entered into a plan to further reduce the size of our jbt fleet and sell approximately 1,100 trailers. this plan is consistent with our strategy as an asset-light transportation company and our focus for growth and investment in segments that provide the desired margins. we expect to sell or trade this equipment during calendar year 2009. ics segment ics provides non-asset, asset-light, and transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and integration with jbht-owned equipment. by leveraging the jbht brand, systems and network, ics brings a broader service offering to customers by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited and ltl, as well as a variety of dry-van and intermodal solutions. ics provides single source logistics management for customers that desire to outsource their transportation functions and utilize jbht proven supply-chain, technology, and design expertise to improve efficiency. ics operates outside offices as well as on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with customers. ics revenue for 2008 was $209 million, compared with $92 million in 2007. at december 31, 2008, the ics segment employed 278 people. logistics business and affiliated company we own a 37% equity interest in a global transportation and logistics company, transplace, inc. (tpi). tpi is co-owned by five large transportation companies and provides a blend of logistics technology and 5 table of contents transportation management services. our share of tpi financial results is included on a one-line nonoperating item included on our consolidated statements of earnings titled equity in loss of affiliated company. marketing and operations we transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including general merchandise, food and beverages, forest and paper products, building materials, chemicals and automotive parts. our customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. we provide a broad range of transportation services to larger shippers that seek to use a limited number of core carriers. we have no customers that represent 10% or more of our total revenue in 2008. we generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. we use a specific sales force in dcs due to the length, complexity and specialization of the sales cycle and ics has its own proactive local branch salespeople. in accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. people we believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. as of december 31, 2008, we had 14,667 employees, including 10,022 company drivers, 1,197 mechanics and 3,448 office personnel. we also had arrangements with more than 900 independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing equipment. none of our employees is represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. revenue equipment our jbi segment utilizes high-cube containers, which can be separated from the chassis and double-stacked on rail cars. we continue the process of expanding our container fleet and reconditioning our chassis fleet. the composition of our dcs trailing fleet also varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks and dump trailers. our jbt segment operates primarily with 53-foot dry-van trailers. we continue to execute our strategy of reducing the size of the jbt segment. we primarily utilize third-party carriers tractor and trailing equipment for our ics segment; however, certain loads will utilize third-party carriers tractors powering our trailing equipment. as of december 31, 2008, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 9,067 units. in addition, we had 912 independent contractors, who operate their own tractors, but transport freight in our trailing equipment. we operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our jbi and jbt fleets. based on our customers preferences and the actual business application, our dcs fleet is extremely diversified. we believe operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers and lowers maintenance expense. at december 31, 2008, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 3.3 years, our containers averaged 5.3 years of age and our trailers averaged 7.2 years. we perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at most of our regional terminal facilities. effective with model-year 2007 tractors, the epa mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. the 2007 epa-compliant engines show a slight reduction in miles per gallon and an increase in operating costs. further, the acquisition costs of these new engines have increased by approximately 10%. a new set of more stringent emissions standards will become effective for newly manufactured tractor engines in january 2010. 6 table of contents competition and the industry the freight transportation market in which we operate is frequently referred to as highly fragmented and competitive. our jbi segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies as well as other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation service. considering the diversified nature of the services provided by our dcs segment, competition ranges from large diversified carriers to local transportation and delivery service carriers. our ics segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers. the full-load freight competition of our jbt segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. while we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country. we compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of on-time pickup and delivery service, price, revenue equipment and availability of carriers for logistics services. regulation our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) and the federal motor carrier safety administration (fmcsa), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. the dot periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with all federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the dot. our operations into and out of canada and mexico are also subject to regulation by those countries. in november 2008, the fmcsa adopted final provisions of the agency december 17, 2007, interim final rule concerning hours of service for commercial vehicle drivers. this final rule allows drivers to continue to drive up to 11 hours within a 14-hour nonextendable window from the start of the workday, following at least 10 consecutive hours off duty. the rule also allows motor carriers and drivers to continue to restart calculations of weekly on-duty limits after the driver has at least 34 consecutive hours off duty. the rule was effective january 19, 2009. we continue to monitor the actions of the fmcsa. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this form 10-k and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. our business is subject to general economic and business factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. recent economic trends and the current tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect our ability, and the ability of our suppliers, to obtain financing for operations and capital expenditures. our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include interference with, or termination of, our relationships with certain railroads, significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel taxes, interest rates, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, excess capacity in the trucking industry, license and registration fees, terrorist attacks or actions, acts of war, adverse weather conditions, increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment, surpluses in the market for used equipment, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors. we are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. in addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and 7 table of contents our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. we depend on third parties in the operation of our business. our jbi business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. the majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. while we have agreements with various class i railroads, the majority of our business travels on the burlington northern santa fe and the norfolk southern railways. the inability to utilize one or more of these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. in addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the united states through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business. our ics business segment utilizes third-party carriers. aside from periodic use of our trailing equipment to fulfill certain loads, we do not own or control the revenue equipment or drivers delivering the loads. the inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2008, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 35% of our revenue. our jbi, jbt and ics segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. while our dcs segment business may involve a written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or that they will continue at the same levels. a reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. during 2006 and 2007, the self-insured portion of our claims exposure for all claims was $500,000 per occurrence. during 2008, the self-insured portion of our claims was $500,000 per occurrence for personal injury and property damage and $1 million per occurrence for workers compensation. if the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. we have renewed our policies for 2009 with substantially the same terms as our 2008 policies. we purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. if these expenses increase, and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. we operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. the dot and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety and financial reporting. we are audited periodically by the dot to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. if we were found to be out of compliance, the dot could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. we continue to monitor actions taken by the fmcsa. significant changes in hours-of-service regulations and other motor carrier safety regulations could negatively impact our operations due to lower driver productivity or increased capital expenditures for monitoring and recordkeeping equipment. 8 table of contents effective with model-year 2007 tractors, the epa mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. the acquisition costs of these new engines have increased by approximately 10%. a new set of more stringent emissions standards will become effective for newly manufactured tractor engines in january 2010. while it is too early to assess the impact of the new standards, our fuel costs, operating costs and acquisition costs could be impacted. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. we operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. we also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. if a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. if we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. during the past several years, fuel cost per gallon has varied significantly. we have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. however, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. in addition, we incur additional costs when fuel prices rise that cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. as of december 31, 2008, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers, delivery personnel and third-party carriers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. periodically, we have experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including independent contractors. if we are unable to continue attracting an adequate number of employees or contract with enough independent contractors, we could be required to significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle or dispose of the equipment altogether, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. in addition, our ics segment growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers which we rely upon to provide transportation services. we operate in a competitive and somewhat fragmented industry. numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. we compete with many other transportation services providers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with ltl carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. additionally, some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or maintain our profit margins. in an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects so-called core carriers as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. also, certain customers that 9 table of contents operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby reducing their need for our services. extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results. certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our operations. increases in costs relating to towing and other maintenance frequently occur during the winter months of our business. natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and increase our costs. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of our total $633.5 million of debt, we had $165.0 million of variable rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2008, under our revolving lines of credit. the interest rates applicable to these agreements are based on either the prime rate or libor. our earnings would be affected by changes in these short-term interest rates. risk can be quantified by measuring the financial impact of a near-term adverse increase in short-term interest rates. at our current level of borrowing, a 1% increase in our applicable rate would reduce annual pretax earnings by approximately $1.7 million. our remaining debt is effectively fixed rate debt, and therefore changes in market interest rates do not directly impact our interest expense. periodically, we enter into derivative instruments in response to market interest rates. although we conduct business in foreign countries, international operations are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. additionally, foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material to our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2008. accordingly, we are not currently subject to material foreign currency exchange rate risks from the effects that exchange rate movements of foreign currencies would have on our future costs or on future cash flows we would receive from our foreign investment. to date, we have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the price and availability of diesel fuel are subject to fluctuations due to changes in the level of global oil production, seasonality, weather and other market factors. historically, we have been able to recover a majority of fuel-price increases from our customers in the form of fuel surcharges. we cannot predict the extent to which high fuel price levels will continue in the future or the extent to which fuel surcharges could be collected to offset such increases. as of december 31, 2008, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. 25 table of contentswe assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason. part i item 1. business overview we are one of the largest surface transportation and delivery service companies in north america. j.b. hunt transport services, inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries, provides a wide range of transportation services to a diverse group of customers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. unless otherwise indicated by the context, we, us, our and jbht refer to j.b. hunt transport services, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. we were incorporated in arkansas on august 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. our wide scope of scalable service offerings is relatively uncommon in the industry and ranges from full-load containerized freight transportation over highways and railroads to individual deliveries of appliances and other items to small businesses and personal residences. we have arrangements with most of the major north american rail carriers to transport freight in containers and trailers. we also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor, systems and delivery services that are tailored to meet individual customer's requirements and typically involve longer-term contracts. these arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized equipment and freight network design. we also provide integrated capacity and comprehensive transportation and logistics services and solutions by utilizing a network of thousands of reliable third-party carriers. while these unrelated outside carriers, at times, supplement our dry-van, full-load operations, they also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload (ltl) and other specialized equipment, drivers and services. our business operations are primarily organized through four distinct, but complementary, business segments. these segments include intermodal (jbi), dedicated contract services (dcs), full-load dry-van (jbt) and integrated capacity solutions (ics). our business is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during august through early november. our dcs segment is subject to less seasonal variation than our other segments. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2009, our consolidated revenue totaled $3.2 billion, after the elimination of intersegment business. of this total, 55% was generated by our jbi business segment, 24% by dcs, 14% by jbt and 7% by ics. 3 additional general information about us is available on our internet website at www.jbhunt.com . we make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website, including our annual report on form 10-k, our proxy statement and our earnings releases. our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, board committee charters and other corporate policies. our mission and strategy we forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategy. working in concert, we drive out cost, add value and function as an extension of our customers' enterprise. we believe that our operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders. recent focus our recent focus has been to maximize the return on our invested capital and generate free cash flow to reduce outstanding debt. we believe we can leverage the services of our business units for the ultimate benefit of our customers. we continuously analyze where capital investments yield the best return and allocate funds to those business units and specific activities inside the business unit. unacceptable returns in various areas have caused us to reduce certain business models or exit those activities within the business model. our goal is to become more asset-light in certain of the services we provide, but to continue to grow with new and existing customers by providing the most efficient transportation solutions to their supply chains. we are encouraged by the growing number of shippers using all of our services as a way to meet their needs and feel it is positive confirmation of our focus and goals. examples of steps taken to reach those goals include the continued contraction of the jbt business unit coupled with the growth in our ics business unit, the expansion of our eastern intermodal network, and the development of our new and existing customer base. we also continue to direct our dedicated business unit toward providing best-in-class service in applications that require unique and specialized services ranging from retail and small-business replenishment to deliveries at personal residences. a significant step toward this goal has been the implementation of a cross-dock and delivery system network during 2009. by midyear 2010, we plan to manage delivery facilities or operations that will allow us to directly serve in excess of 90% of the u.s. population. increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions. our intermodal service addresses both demands. we are customizing dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon emissions. efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and we are an environmental protection agency (epa) smartway sm transport partner. as always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as safely as possible. operating segments segment information is also included in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. jbi segment the transportation service offerings of our jbi segment utilize arrangements with most major north american rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. our jbi segment began operations in 1989 with a unique partnership with what is now the bnsf railway company, a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint marketing environment. jbi draws on the intermodal services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment and performs the pickups and deliveries ( drayage ) for customers at the origin and destination rail terminal locations. we provide the drayage service at either the origin or destination rail ramp utilizing our company-owned tractors for the majority of our intermodal loads, but utilize third parties where economical. performing our own dray services keeps costs lower and improves customer service. jbi provides seamless coordination of the rail and dray movements for our customers and delivers a single billing for complete door-to-door service. 4 jbi operates 40,170 company-controlled containers systemwide. the entire fleet is comprised of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. jbi also manages a fleet of 2,303 company-owned tractors and 2,780 company drivers that provide efficiency to our intermodal operations. at december 31, 2009, the total jbi employee count was 3,078. revenue for the jbi segment in 2009 was $1.76 billion. dcs segment dcs offers transportation services that generally are not provided by common truckload carriers or intermodal due to strict service requirements, specialized equipment, and intense driver and delivery personnel demands. our operations are managed on site by transportation professionals who work in concert daily with the customer and our drivers to ensure that we deliver their product or service on time in a safe and cost-effective manner. all operations are governed by longer-term contracts that typically include fixed cost components related to dedicated specialized equipment and fuel surcharge programs on round-trip miles. during 2009, we commenced the implementation of significantly more new business than we have in any other prior year. as a result of this growth, our final-mile delivery channel business became a significant part of our dcs business. at december 31, 2009, this segment operated 3,969 company-controlled trucks, 358 customer-owned trucks, and 31 independent contractor trucks. the dcs segment employed 5,765 people at december 31, 2009. dcs revenue for 2009 was $757 million. jbt segment the service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing tractors operating over roads and highways. we typically pick up freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. we use our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport freight in our trailers. at december 31, 2009, the jbt segment operated 1,698 company-owned tractors and employed 2,150 people, 1,823 of whom were drivers. at december 31, 2009, we had 1,163 independent contractors operating in the jbt segment, some of whom were leasing company-owned tractors. jbt revenue for 2009 was $447 million. ics segment ics provides non-asset, asset-light, and transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and integration with our owned equipment. by leveraging the j.b. hunt brand, systems and network, ics brings a broader service offering to customers by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited and ltl, as well as a variety of dry-van and intermodal solutions. ics provides single-source logistics management for customers that desire to outsource their transportation functions and utilize our proven supply-chain, technology, and design expertise to improve efficiency. ics operates outside offices as well as on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with customers. at december 31, 2009, the ics segment employed 323 people, with a carrier base in excess of 22,400. ics revenue for 2009 was $259 million. 5 marketing and operations we transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances, forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and cosmetics, automotive parts, electronics, and chemicals. our customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. we provide a broad range of transportation services to larger shippers that seek to use a limited number of core carriers and those that desire a provider of complementary services as a way to meet all of their supply-chain needs. we had no customers that represented 10% or more of our total revenue in 2009. we generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. we use a specific sales force in dcs due to the length, complexity and specialization of the sales cycle. in addition, ics utilizes its own proactive local branch salespeople. in accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. people we believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. as of december 31, 2009, we had 14,171 employees, including 9,287 company drivers, 1,210 mechanics and 3,674 office personnel. we also had arrangements with approximately 1,200 independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing equipment. none of our employees is represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. revenue equipment our jbi segment utilizes high-cube containers, which can be separated from the chassis and double-stacked on rail cars. the composition of our dcs trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks and dump trailers. our jbt segment operates primarily with 53-foot dry-van trailers. we primarily utilize third-party carriers' tractor and trailing equipment for our ics segment. as of december 31, 2009, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 7,970 units. in addition, we had approximately 1,200 independent contractors who operate their own tractors, but transport freight in our trailing equipment. we operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our jbi and jbt fleets. due to our customers' preferences and the actual business application, our dcs fleet is extremely diversified. we believe that operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers and lowers maintenance expense. at december 31, 2009, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.7 years, our containers averaged 5.4 years of age and our trailers averaged 7.9 years. we perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at most of our regional terminal facilities. effective with model-year 2010 engines, the epa has mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractors. the 2010 epa-compliant engines are expected to have a slight increase in miles per gallon and an increase in operating costs compared with current engine standards due to selective catalytic reduction (scr) technology, which achieves lower emissions. at this time, we have not taken delivery of any epa 2010 model engines, but plan on doing so later in 2010. competition and the industry the freight transportation markets in which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and competitive. our jbi segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies as well as other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation service. considering the diversified nature of the services provided by our dcs segment, competition ranges from large diversified carriers to local transportation and delivery service carriers. our ics segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers. the full-load freight competition of our jbt segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. while we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country. 6 we compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery service, revenue equipment quality and availability of carriers for logistics services. regulation our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) and the federal motor carrier safety administration (fmcsa), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. the dot periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with all federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the dot. our operations into and out of canada and mexico are also subject to regulation by those countries. in november 2008, the fmcsa adopted final provisions of the agency's december 17, 2007, interim final rule concerning hours of service for commercial vehicle drivers. this final rule allows drivers to continue to drive up to 11 hours within a 14-hour nonextendable window from the start of the workday, following at least 10 consecutive hours off duty. the rule also allows motor carriers and drivers to continue to restart calculations of weekly on-duty limits after the driver has at least 34 consecutive hours off duty. the rule was effective january 19, 2009. we believe we are in compliance with all applicable regulations and continue to monitor the actions of the fmcsa. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this form 10-k and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. our business is subject to general economic and business factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. economic trends and the tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect our ability, and the ability of our suppliers, to obtain financing for operations and capital expenditures. our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include interference with, or termination of, our relationships with certain railroads, significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel taxes, interest rates, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, excess capacity in the trucking industry, license and registration fees, terrorist attacks or actions, acts of war, adverse weather conditions, increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment, surpluses in the market for used equipment, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, independent contractors and third-party carriers. we are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers' business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. in addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. 7 we depend on third parties in the operation of our business. our jbi business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. the majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. while we have agreements with various class i railroads, the majority of our business travels on the burlington northern santa fe and the norfolk southern railways. the inability to utilize one or more of these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. in addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the united states through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business. our ics business segment utilizes third-party carriers. aside from periodic use of our trailing equipment to fulfill certain loads, we do not own the revenue equipment or control the drivers delivering the loads. the inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth. rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. fuel costs can be very volatile. we have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. however, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. in addition, we incur additional costs when fuel price increases cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. as of december 31, 2009, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. during 2007, the self-insured portion of our claims exposure for all claims was $500,000 per occurrence. during 2008 and 2009, the self-insured portion of our claims was $500,000 per occurrence for personal injury and property damage and $1 million per occurrence for workers' compensation. if the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. we have renewed our policies for 2010 with substantially the same terms as our 2009 policies for personal injury and property damage. we have reduced the self-insured portion of our workers' compensation claims exposure and are substantially fully insured for claims in 2010. we purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. if these expenses increase and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2009, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 33% of our revenue. our jbi, jbt and ics segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. while our dcs segment business may involve a written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or continue at the same levels. a reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 8 we operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. the dot and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety and financial reporting. we are audited periodically by the dot to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. if we were found to be out of compliance, the dot could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. significant changes in hours-of-service regulations and other motor carrier safety regulations could negatively impact our operations due to lower driver productivity or increased capital expenditures for monitoring and recordkeeping equipment. in january 2010, a set of more stringent emissions standards became effective for model-year 2010 manufactured tractor engines. while it is too early to assess the impact of the new standards, our fuel costs, operating costs and acquisition costs could be impacted. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. we operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. we also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. if a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. if we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers, delivery personnel and third-party carriers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. if we are unable to attract and retain the necessary number of employees or contract with enough independent contractors, we could be required to significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle or dispose of the equipment altogether, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. in addition, our ics segment growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers upon whom we rely to provide transportation services. we operate in a competitive and highly fragmented industry. numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. we compete with many other transportation services providers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with ltl carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. additionally, some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or maintain our profit margins. in an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects so-called core carriers as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. also, certain customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby reducing their need for our services. 9 extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results. certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our operations. increases in the cost of our operations, such as towing and other maintenance activities, frequently occur during the winter months. natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and increase our costs.risk factors 7 we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason. part i item 1. business overview we are one of the largest surface transportation, delivery and logistics companies in north america. j.b. hunt transport services, inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly-owned subsidiaries, provides safe and reliable transportation and delivery services to a diverse group of customers and consumers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. unless otherwise indicated by the context, we, us, our and jbht refer to j.b. hunt transport services, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. we were incorporated in arkansas on august 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. our service off erings include transportation of full truckload containerized freight, which we directly transport utilizing our company-controlled revenue equipment and company drivers or independent contractors. we have arrangements with most of the major north american rail carriers to transport freight in containers or trailers. we also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor, systems and delivery services that are tailored to meet individual customers' requirements and typically involve long-term contracts. these arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized equipment and freight network design. our local and home delivery services typically are provided through the use of a network of cross dock service centers throughout the continental united states. utilizing a network of thousands of reliable third-party carriers, we a lso provide comprehensive transportation and logistics services. in addition to dry-van, full load operations, these unrelated outside carriers also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload (ltl) and other specialized equipment, drivers and services. our customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. 3 we believe our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive edge. these segments include intermodal (jbi), dedicated contract services (dcs), full-load dry-van (jbt) and integrated capacity solutions (ics). our business is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during august through early november. our dcs segment is subject to somewhat less seasonal variation than our other segments. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2010, our consolidated revenue totaled $3.8 billion, after the elimination of intersegment business. of this total, 56% was gener ated by our jbi business segment, 24% by dcs, 12% by jbt and 8% by ics. additional general information about us is available on our internet web site at www.jbhunt.com . we make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our web site, including our annual report on form 10-k, our proxy statement and our earnings releases. our web site also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, board committee charters and other corporate policies. our mission and strategy we forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply chain management as an integral part of their strategy. working in concert, we drive out cost, add value and function as an extension of our customers' enterprise. our strategy is based on utilizing an integrated, multimodal approach, to provide capacity-oriented solutions centered on delivering customer value and industry-leading service. recent focus we continually analyze where we believe additional capital should be invested and management resources should be focused to provide added benefits to our customers and leverage the services of our business segments. these actions should in turn, yield increasing returns to our stockholders. unacceptable returns in certain areas have recently caused us to reduce the size of certain business segments and grow others. examples of our recent actions include the focus on growth of capacity associated with the jbi segment and continued contraction of the jbt business segment. we have also concentrated on the development and operation of one of the largest nationwide, final mile cross dock networks that consists of approximately 90 service centers supporting local commercial and home delivery activities within our dcs business segment. this network supports our goal to provide best-in-class services that increase delivery and replenishment service offerings to both residential and commercial locations. increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions. our intermodal service addresses both demands. further, we are customizing dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon emissions. efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and we are an environmental protection agency (epa) smartway sm transport partner. as always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as safely as possible. operating segments segment information is also included in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. jbi segment the transportation service offerings of our jbi segment utilize arrangements with most major north american rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. our jbi segment began operations in 1989 forming a unique partnership with what is now the bnsf railway company; a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint marketing environment. jbi draws on the intermodal services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment between rail ramps. the origin and destination pickup and delivery services ( drayage ) are handled by our company-owned tracto rs for the majority of our intermodal loads, while utilizing third party dray carriers where economical. by performing our own dray services, we are able to provide a cost competitive, seamless coordination of the combined rail and dray movements for our customers. 4 jbi operates 45,666 pieces of company-controlled trailing equipment systemwide. the fleet is primarily comprised of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. jbi also manages a fleet of 2,592 company-owned tractors and 3,198 company drivers that maintain our high service standards. at december 31, 2010, the total jbi employee count was 3,533. revenue for the jbi segment in 2010 was $2.14 billion. dcs segment dcs specializes in the design, development and execution of supply chain solutions which support a variety of transportation networks. our designs are developed and customized to provide assigned equipment and labor, industry-leading service levels, optimum efficiency, and cost-savings management. dcs focuses on final mile delivery, replenishment, and specialized services supporting private fleet conversion, dedicated fleet creation and transportation system augmentation. we have continued to expand our specialized service offerings in the final mile delivery services with approximately 90 cross dock locations to date. our operations are managed on site by transportation professionals who work in concert daily with cus tomers and delivery specialists to ensure safe and cost-effective delivery. operations are governed by longer-term contracts that typically include fixed cost components and fuel surcharge programs on round-trip miles. at december 31, 2010, this segment operated 4,259 company-owned trucks, 357 customer-owned trucks, and 23 independent contractor trucks. the dcs segment employed 6,355 people at december 31, 2010. dcs revenue for 2010 was $907 million. jbt segment the service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing tractors operating over roads and highways. we typically pick up freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. we use our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport freight in our trailers. at december 31, 2010, the jbt segment operated 1,697 company-owned tractors and employed 2,217 people, 1,865 of whom were drivers. at december 31, 2010, we had 891 independent contractors operating in the jbt segment, some of whom were leasing company-owned tractors. jbt revenue for 2010 was $479 million. ics segment ics provides non-asset, asset-light, and transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and integration with our owned equipment. by leveraging the j.b. hunt brand, systems and network, we provide a broader service offering to customers by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited and ltl, as well as a variety of dry-van and intermodal solutions. ics provides single-source logistics management for customers that desire to outsource their transportation functions and utilize our proven supply chain, technology, and design expertise to improve efficiency. ics operates outside offices as well as on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with customers. at december 31, 2010, the ics segment employed 329 people, with a carrier base of approximately 25,600. ics revenue for 2010 was $291 million. marketing and operations we transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances, forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and cosmetics, automotive parts, electronics, and chemicals. our customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. we provide a broad range of transportation services to larger shippers that seek to use a limited number of core carriers and those that desire a provider of complementary services as a way to meet all of their supply chain needs. 5 we generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. we use a specific sales force in dcs due to the length, complexity and specialization of the sales cycle. in addition, ics utilizes its own local branch salespeople. in accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. people we believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. as of december 31, 2010, we had 15,223 employees, which consisted of 10,172 company drivers, 3,821 office personnel and 1,230 mechanics. we also had arrangements with approximately 1,000 independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing equipment. none of our employees is represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. revenue equipment our jbi segment utilizes high-cube containers, which can be separated from the chassis and double-stacked on rail cars. the composition of our dcs trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks and dump trailers. our jbt segment operates primarily with 53-foot dry-van trailers. we primarily utilize third-party carriers' tractor and trailing equipment for our ics segment. as of december 31, 2010, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 8,548 units. in addition, we had approximately 1,000 independent contractors who operate their own tractors, but transport freight in our trailing equipment. we operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our jbi and jbt fleets. due to our customers' preferences and the actual business application, our dcs fleet is extremely diversified. we believe that operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers and lowers maintenance expense. at december 31, 2010, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.9 years, our containers averaged 4.7 years of age and our trailers ave raged 8.7 years. we perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at most of our regional terminal facilities. effective with model-year 2010 engines, the epa has mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractors. the 2010 epa-compliant engines are expected to have no decrease in miles per gallon and a slight increase in operating costs due to more stringent maintenance procedures compared to prior engine standards due to exhaust gas recirculation (egr) technology, which achieves lower emissions. competition and the industry the freight transportation markets in which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and competitive. our jbi segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies as well as other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation service. considering the diversified nature of the services provided by our dcs segment, competition ranges from large diversified carriers to local transportation and delivery service providers. the full-load freight competition of our jbt segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. while we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country. our ics segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers. we compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery service, revenue equipment quality and availability of carriers for logistics services. 6 regulation our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) and the federal motor carrier safety administration (fmcsa), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. the dot periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with all federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the dot. our operations into and out of canada and mexico are subject to regulation by those countries. in december 2010, the fmcsa began reporting to the public through its web site specific safety rating and carrier ranking statistics for more than 500,000 transportation companies in connection with its compliance safety accountability 2010 (csa 2010) program. the csa 2010 reporting process tracks and reports data on specific carriers including moving violations, out-of-service events and on-the-road inspections. csa 2010 also accumulates information on commercial drivers; however individual driver information is only available to carriers and others that subscribe to a reporting service. our current csa 2010 scores meet or exceed the fmcsa's requirements for acceptable performance. as this csa 2010 carrier and d river information becomes more readily available to shippers, consignees, brokers, carriers and other parties, it is expected that certain carriers and drivers will exit the transportation industry. in december 2010, the fmcsa also issued proposed changes to the hours of service rules for commercial vehicle drivers. subsequent to a 60-day comment period, the fmcsa is expected to publish a final rule in july 2011, with an effective date several months later. we believe we are in compliance with all applicable regulations. in january 2011, the fmcsa issued a regulatory proposal regarding the required use of electronic on-board recorders (eobr) in an effort to facilitate the reporting and enforcement of driver in-service hours. if these types of rules are eventually implemented, certain transportation companies may be required to utilize eobr's. we are in the process of evaluating all proposed rules to determine their impact on our operations and will continue to monitor the actions of the fmcsa. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this form 10-k and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. our business is subject to general economic and business factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. economic trends and the tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect our ability, and the ability of our suppliers, to obtain financing for operations and capital expenditures. our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include interference with, or termination of, our relationships with certain railroads, significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel taxes, interest rates, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, excess capacity in the trucking industry, license and registration fees, terrorist attacks or actions, acts of war, adverse weather conditions, increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment, surpluses in the market for used equipment, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, independent contractors and th ird-party carriers. 7 we are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers' business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. in addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. we depend on third parties in the operation of our business. our jbi business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. the majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. while we have agreements with various class i railroads, the majority of our business travels on the burlington northern santa fe and the norfolk southern railways. the inability to utilize one or more of these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. in addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the united states through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a materia l adverse effect on our business. our ics business segment utilizes third-party carriers. these third-parties are subject to similar regulation requirements noted previously, which may have a more significant impact on their operations causing them to exit the transportation industry. aside from periodic use of our trailing equipment to fulfill certain loads, we do not own the revenue equipment or control the drivers delivering the loads. the inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth. rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. fuel costs can be very volatile. we have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. however, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. in addition, we incur additional costs when fuel price increases cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. as of december 31, 2010, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. if the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. we have renewed our policies for 2011 with substantially the same terms as our 2010 policies for personal injury, cargo and property damage. we have reduced the self-insured portion of our workers' compensation claims exposure and are fully insured for substantially all claims incurred in 2011. we purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. if these expenses increase and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earn ings could be materially and adversely affected. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2010, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 34% of our revenue. our jbi, jbt and ics segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. while our dcs segment business may involve a written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or continue at the same levels. a reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 8 we operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. the dot and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety and financial reporting. we are audited periodically by the dot to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. if we were found to be out of compliance, the dot could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. significant changes in hours-of-service regulations and other motor carrier safety regulations could negatively impact our operations due to lower driver productivity or increased capital expenditures for monitoring and recordkeeping equipment. effective january 2010, a set of more stringent emissions standards became effective for model-year 2010 manufactured tractor engines. further, csa 2010 could have a material adverse effect on the ability to obtain qualified drivers. we continue to monitor the impact of new and proposed standards on acquisition and operating costs. difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers, delivery personnel and third-party carriers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. if we are unable to attract and retain the necessary quality and number of employees or contract with enough independent contractors, we could be required to significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle or dispose of the equipment altogether, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. in addition, our growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers upon whom we rely to provide transportation services. we operate in a competitive and highly fragmented industry. numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. we compete with many other transportation services providers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with ltl carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. additionally, some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or maintain our profit margins. in an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects so-called core carriers as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. also, certain customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby reducing their need for our services. extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results. certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our operations. increases in the cost of our operations, such as towing and other maintenance activities, frequently occur during the winter months. natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and increase our costs. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. we operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. we also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. if a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. if we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk can be quantified by measuring the financial impact of a near-term adverse increase in short-term interest rates on variable-rate debt outstanding. of our total $654.2 million of debt, we had $5.0 million of variable-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2010, under our revolving lines of credit. the interest rates applicable to these agreements are based on either the prime rate or libor. our earnings would be affected by changes in these short-term interest rates related to this variable-rate debt outstanding. our remaining debt is fixed-rate debt, and therefore changes in market interest rates do not directly impact our interest expense. periodically, we enter into derivative instruments in response to market interest rates; however, at december 31, 2010, we had no such derivative financial instruments in place. although we conduct business in foreign countries, international operations are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. additionally, foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material to our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2010. accordingly, we are not currently subject to material foreign currency exchange rate risks from the effects that exchange rate movements of foreign currencies would have on our future costs or on future cash flows we would receive from our foreign investment. to date, we have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the price and availability of diesel fuel are subject to fluctuations due to changes in the level of global oil production, seasonality, weather and other market factors. historically, we have been able to recover a majority of fuel-price increases from our customers in the form of fuel surcharges. we cannot predict the extent to which high fuel price levels will continue in the future or the extent to which fuel surcharges could be collected to offset such increases. as of december 31, 2010, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations.risk factors 6 we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason. part i item 1. business overview we are one of the largest surface transportation, delivery and logistics companies in north america. j.b. hunt transport services, inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries, provides safe and reliable transportation and delivery services to a diverse group of customers and consumers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. unless otherwise indicated by the context, we, us, our and jbht refer to j.b. hunt transport services, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. we were incorporated in arkansas on august 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. our service offerings include transportation of full truckload containerized freight, which we directly transport utilizing our company-controlled revenue equipment and company drivers or independent contractors. we have arrangements with most of the major north american rail carriers to transport freight in containers or trailers. we also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor, systems and delivery services that are tailored to meet individual customers' requirements and typically involve long-term contracts. these arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized equipment and freight network design. our local and home delivery services typically are provided through a network of cross-dock service centers throughout the continental united states. utilizing a network of thousands of reliable third-party carriers, we also provide comprehensive transportation and logistics services. in addition to dry-van, full-load operations, these unrelated outside carriers also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload (ltl) and other specialized equipment, drivers and services. our customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. 2 we believe our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. these segments include intermodal (jbi), dedicated contract services (dcs), full-load dry-van (jbt) and integrated capacity solutions (ics). our business is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during august through early november. our dcs segment is subject to somewhat less seasonal variation than our other segments. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2011, our consolidated revenue totaled $4.5 billion, after the elimination of intersegment business. of this total, 59% was generated by our jbi business segment, 23% by dcs, 11% by jbt and 7% by ics. additional general information about us is available on our internet website at www.jbhunt.com . we make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website, including our annual report on form 10-k, our proxy statement and our earnings releases. our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, board committee charters and other corporate policies. our mission and strategy we forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategy. working in concert, we drive out cost, add value and function as an extension of our customers' enterprise. our strategy is based on utilizing an integrated, multimodal approach to provide capacity-oriented solutions centered on delivering customer value and industry-leading service. we believe our unique operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders. recent focus we continually analyze where we believe additional capital should be invested and management resources should be focused to provide added benefits to our customers and leverage the services of our business segments. these actions should, in turn, yield increasing returns to our stockholders. unacceptable returns in certain areas have recently caused us to reduce the size of certain business segments and expand others. examples of our recent actions include focus on growth of capacity associated with the jbi segment and our continued concentration on the development and operation of one of the largest nationwide, final-mile cross-dock networks supporting local commercial and home delivery activities within our dcs segment. this network supports our goal to provide best-in-class services that increase delivery and replenishment service offerings to both residential and commercial locations. increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions. our intermodal service addresses both demands. further, we are customizing dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon emissions. efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and we are an environmental protection agency (epa) smartway sm transport partner. as always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as safely as possible. operating segments segment information is also included in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. jbi segment the transportation service offerings of our jbi segment utilize arrangements with most major north american rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. our jbi segment began operations in 1989 forming a unique partnership with what is now the bnsf railway company; this was a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint marketing environment. jbi draws on the intermodal services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment between rail ramps. the origin and destination pickup and delivery services ( drayage ) are handled by our company-owned tractors for the majority of our intermodal loads, while utilizing third-party dray carriers where economical. by performing our own drayage services, we are able to provide a cost-competitive, seamless coordination of the combined rail and dray movements for our customers. 3 jbi operates 54,506 pieces of company-controlled trailing equipment systemwide. the fleet is primarily consists of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. jbi also manages a fleet of 2,901 company-owned tractors and 3,504 company drivers who maintain our high service standards. at december 31, 2011, the total jbi employee count was 3,893. revenue for the jbi segment in 2011 was $2.7 billion. dcs segment dcs specializes in the design, development and execution of supply-chain solutions which support a variety of transportation networks. our designs are developed and customized to provide assigned equipment and labor, industry-leading service levels optimum efficiency, and cost-saving management. dcs focuses on final-mile delivery, replenishment and specialized services supporting private fleet conversion, dedicated fleet creation and transportation system augmentation. we have continued to expand our specialized service offerings in the final-mile delivery services with approximately 90 cross-dock locations to date. our operations are managed on site by transportation professionals who work in concert daily with customers and delivery specialists to ensure safe and cost-effective delivery. operations are governed by longer-term contracts that typically include fixed cost components and fuel surcharge programs on round-trip miles. at december 31, 2011, this segment operated 4,571 company-owned trucks, 330 customer-owned trucks, and 17 independent contractor trucks. the dcs segment employed 6,418 people at december 31, 2011. dcs revenue for 2011 was $1.0 billion. jbt segment the service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing tractors operating over roads and highways. we typically pick up freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. we use our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport freight in our trailers. at december 31, 2011, the jbt segment operated 1,637 company-owned tractors and employed 2,135 people, 1,743 of whom were drivers. at december 31, 2011, we had 948 independent contractors operating in the jbt segment, some of whom were leasing company-owned tractors. jbt revenue for 2011 was $504 million. ics segment ics provides non-asset, asset-light, and transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and integration with our owned equipment. by leveraging the j.b. hunt brand, systems and network, we provide a broader service offering to customers by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited and ltl, as well as a variety of dry-van and intermodal solutions. ics provides single-source logistics management for customers that desire to outsource their transportation functions and utilize our proven supply-chain technology and design expertise to improve efficiency. ics operates 11 remote sales offices or branches, as well as on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with customers. at december 31, 2011, the ics segment employed 384 people, with a carrier base of approximately 28,800. ics revenue for 2011 was $356 million. marketing and operations we transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances, forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and cosmetics, automotive parts, electronics, and chemicals. our customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. we provide a broad range of transportation services to larger shippers seeking to use a limited number of core carriers and those desiring a provider of complementary services as a way to meet all of their supply-chain needs. 4 we generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. we use a specific sales force in dcs due to the length, complexity and specialization of the sales cycle. in addition, ics utilizes its own local branch salespeople. in accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. people we believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. as of december 31, 2011, we had 15,631 employees, which consisted of 10,511 company drivers, 3,982 office personnel and 1,138 maintenance technicians. we also had arrangements with approximately 1,178 independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing equipment. none of our employees is represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. revenue equipment our jbi segment utilizes high-cube containers, which can be separated from the chassis and double-stacked on rail cars. the composition of our dcs trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks and dump trailers. our jbt segment operates primarily with 53-foot dry-van trailers. we primarily utilize third-party carriers' tractor and trailing equipment for our ics segment. as of december 31, 2011, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 9,109 units. in addition, we had approximately 1,178 independent contractors who operate their own tractors but transport freight in our trailing equipment. we operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our jbi and jbt fleets. due to our customers' preferences and the actual business application, our dcs fleet is extremely diversified. we believe that operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers and lowers maintenance expense. at december 31, 2011, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.8 years, our containers averaged 4.4 years of age and our trailers averaged 9.4 years. we perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at our regional terminal facilities. effective with model-year 2010 engines, the epa has mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractors. the 2010 epa-compliant engines are expected to have no decrease in miles per gallon and a slight increase in operating costs due to more stringent maintenance procedures compared with prior engine standards due to exhaust gas recirculation (egr) technology, which achieves lower emissions. competition and the industry the freight transportation markets in which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and competitive. our jbi segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies, other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation service, and, to a certain extent, some railroads directly. considering the diversified nature of the services provided by our dcs segment, competition ranges from large diversified carriers to local transportation and delivery service providers. the full-load freight competition of our jbt segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. while we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country. our ics segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers. we compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery service, revenue equipment quality and availability of carriers for logistics services. 5 regulation our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) and the federal motor carrier safety administration (fmcsa), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. the dot periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the dot. our operations into and out of canada and mexico are subject to regulation by those countries. in december 2010, the fmcsa began reporting to the public through its website specific carrier safety ranking statistics for more than 500,000 transportation companies in connection with its compliance safety accountability (csa) program. the csa reporting process tracks and reports data on specific carriers, including moving violations, out-of-service events and on-the-road inspections. csa also accumulates information about commercial drivers; however, individual driver information is only available to carriers and others that subscribe to a reporting service. our current csa scores meet or exceed the fmcsa's requirements for acceptable performance. as this csa carrier and driver information continues to become more readily available to shippers, consignees, brokers, carriers and other parties, it is expected that certain carriers and drivers will exit the transportation industry. on february 1, 2011, the fmcsa published a notice of proposed rulemaking to require currently logging drivers to complete their logs using an electronic on-board recorder (eobr) and accepted comments from the public. this proposal is ongoing. in december 2011, the fmcsa amended the hours-of-service (hos) safety requirements for commercial truck drivers. some provisions of the hos final rule become effective february 27, 2012; others july 1, 2013. fmcsa's final rule will have a negative impact on productivity. we are currently evaluating the impact of the final rule on various segments of our operations to determine more specific productivity and safety implications. we are in the process of evaluating all proposed rules to determine their impact on our operations and will continue to monitor the actions of the fmcsa. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this form 10-k and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. our business is subject to general economic and business factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. economic trends and the tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect our ability, and the ability of our customers and suppliers, to obtain financing for operations and capital expenditures. our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include interference with, or termination of, our relationships with certain railroads, significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel taxes, interest rates, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, excess capacity in the trucking industry, license and registration fees, terrorist attacks or actions, acts of war, adverse weather conditions, increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment, surpluses in the market for used equipment, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, independent contractors and third-party carriers. we are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers' business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. in addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. 6 we depend on third parties in the operation of our business. our jbi business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. the majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. while we have agreements with various class i railroads, the majority of our business travels on the burlington northern santa fe and the norfolk southern railways. the inability to utilize one or more of these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. in addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the united states through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business. our ics business segment utilizes third-party carriers. these third parties are subject to similar regulation requirements noted previously, which may have a more significant impact on their operations, causing them to exit the transportation industry. aside from periodic use of our trailing equipment to fulfill certain loads, we do not own the revenue equipment or control the drivers delivering the loads. the inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth. rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. fuel costs can be very volatile. we have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. however, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. in addition, we incur additional costs when fuel price increases cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. as of december 31, 2011, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. if the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. we have renewed our policies for 2012 with substantially the same terms as our 2011 policies for personal injury, workers' compensation, cargo and property damage. we have significantly reduced the self-insured portion of our workers' compensation claims exposure and are fully insured for substantially all claims incurred since 2010. we purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. if these expenses increase and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2011, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 32% of our revenue. our jbi, jbt and ics segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. while our dcs segment business may involve a written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or continue at the same levels. a reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 7 we operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. the dot and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety and financial reporting. we are audited periodically by the dot to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. if we were found to be out of compliance, the dot could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. significant changes in hours-of-service regulations and other motor carrier safety regulations could negatively impact our operations due to lower driver productivity or increased capital expenditures for monitoring and recordkeeping equipment. in december 2011, the fmcsa amended the hours-of-service (hos) safety requirements for commercial truck drivers. some provisions of the hos final rule become effective february 27, 2012; others july 1, 2013. fmcsa's final rule will have a negative impact on productivity. we continue to monitor the impact of new and proposed standards on acquisition and operating costs. difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers, delivery personnel and third-party carriers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. if we are unable to attract and retain the necessary quality and number of employees or contract with enough independent contractors, we could be required to significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle or dispose of the equipment altogether, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. in addition, our growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers upon whom we rely to provide transportation services. we operate in a competitive and highly fragmented industry. numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. we compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with ltl carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. additionally, some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or to maintain our profit margins. in an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects so-called core carriers as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. also, certain customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby reducing their need for our services. extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results. certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our operations. increases in the cost of our operations, such as towing and other maintenance activities, frequently occur during the winter months. natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and increase our costs. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. we operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. we also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. if a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. if we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 23 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk can be quantified by measuring the financial impact of a near-term adverse increase in short-term interest rates on variable-rate debt outstanding. of our total $749.2 million of debt, we had $299.8 million of variable-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2011, under our revolving lines of credit and our senior term loan. these have variable interest rates, which are based on the prime rate, the federal funds rate or libor, depending upon the specific type of borrowing, plus an applicable margin based on our credit rating and other fees. our earnings would be affected by changes in these short-term variable interest rates. at our current level of borrowing, a one percentage point increase in our applicable rate would reduce annual pretax earnings by $3.0 million. our remaining debt is fixed-rate debt, and therefore changes in market interest rates do not directly impact our interest expense. periodically, we enter into derivative instruments in response to market interest rates; however, at december 31, 2011, we had no such derivative financial instruments in place. although we conduct business in foreign countries, international operations are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. additionally, foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material to our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2011. accordingly, we are not currently subject to material foreign currency exchange rate risks from the effects that exchange rate movements of foreign currencies would have on our future costs or on future cash flows we would receive from our foreign investment. to date, we have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the price and availability of diesel fuel are subject to fluctuations due to changes in the level of global oil production, seasonality, weather and other market factors. historically, we have been able to recover a majority of fuel-price increases from our customers in the form of fuel surcharges. we cannot predict the extent to which high fuel price levels will continue in the future or the extent to which fuel surcharges could be collected to offset such increases. as of december 31, 2011, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations.risk factors 6 we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason. part i item 1. business overview we are one of the largest surface transportation, delivery and logistics companies in north america. j.b. hunt transport services, inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries, provides safe and reliable transportation and delivery services to a diverse group of customers and consumers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. unless otherwise indicated by the context, we, us, our and jbht refer to j.b. hunt transport services, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. we were incorporated in arkansas on august 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. our service offerings include transportation of full-truckload containerized freight, which we directly transport utilizing our company-controlled revenue equipment and company drivers or independent contractors. we have arrangements with most of the major north american rail carriers to transport freight in containers or trailers. we also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor, systems and delivery services that are tailored to meet individual customers' requirements and typically involve long-term contracts. these arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized equipment and freight network design. our local and home delivery services typically are provided through a network of cross-dock service centers throughout the continental united states. utilizing a network of thousands of reliable third-party carriers, we also provide comprehensive transportation and logistics services. in addition to dry-van, full-load operations, these unrelated outside carriers also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload (ltl) and other specialized equipment, drivers and services. our customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. 2 we believe our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. these segments include intermodal (jbi), dedicated contract services (dcs), integrated capacity solutions (ics), and full-load dry-van (jbt). our business is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during august through early november. our dcs segment is subject to somewhat less seasonal variation than our other segments. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2012, our consolidated revenue totaled $5.1 billion, after the elimination of intersegment business. of this total, 61% was generated by our jbi business segment, 21% by dcs, 9% by ics, and 9% by jbt. for the year ended december 31, 2011, jbi represented 59%, dcs 23%, ics 7%, and jbt 11% of our consolidated revenue. for the year ended december 31, 2010, jbi represented 56%, dcs 24%, ics 8%, and jbt 12% of our consolidated revenue. additional general information about us is available on our internet website at www.jbhunt.com . we make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website, including our annual report on form 10-k, our proxy statement and our earnings releases. our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, board committee charters and other corporate policies. our mission and strategy we forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategy. working in concert, we drive out cost, add value and function as an extension of their enterprise. our strategy is based on utilizing an integrated, multimodal approach to provide capacity-oriented solutions centered on delivering customer value and industry-leading service. we believe our unique operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders. recent focus we continually analyze where we believe additional capital should be invested and management resources should be focused to provide added benefits to our customers. these actions should, in turn, yield increasing returns to our stockholders. unacceptable returns in certain areas have recently caused us to reduce the size of certain business segments and expand others. examples of our recent actions include focus on growth of capacity associated with the jbi segment and our continued concentration on the development and operation of one of the largest nationwide, final-mile cross-dock networks supporting local commercial and home delivery activities within our dcs segment. this network supports our goal to provide best-in-class services that increase delivery and replenishment service offerings to both residential and commercial locations. increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions. our intermodal service addresses both demands. further, we are customizing dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon emissions. efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and we are an environmental protection agency (epa) smartway sm transport partner. as always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as safely as possible. operating segments segment information is also included in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. jbi segment the transportation service offerings of our jbi segment utilize arrangements with most major north american rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental united states, canada and mexico. our jbi segment began operations in 1989 forming a unique partnership with what is now the bnsf railway company; this was a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint service environment. jbi draws on the intermodal services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment between rail ramps. the origin and destination pickup and delivery services ( drayage ) are handled by our company-owned tractors for the majority of our intermodal loads, while utilizing third-party dray carriers where economical. by performing our own drayage services, we are able to provide a cost-competitive, seamless coordination of the combined rail and dray movements for our customers. 3 jbi operates 58,962 pieces of company-owned trailing equipment systemwide. the fleet primarily consists of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. the company also owns and maintains its own chassis fleet, consisting of 55,361 pieces. the containers and chassis are uniquely designed so that they may only be paired together, which the company feels creates operational competitive advantage. jbi also manages a fleet of 3,124 company-owned tractors, 472 independent contractor trucks and 3,859 company drivers who maintain our high service standards. at december 31, 2012, the total jbi employee count was 4,299. revenue for the jbi segment in 2012 was $3.1 billion. dcs segment dcs focuses on private fleet conversion and creation in final-mile delivery, replenishment and specialized equipment and services. we also specialize in the design, development and execution of supply-chain solutions that support a variety of transportation networks. our final-mile delivery services are supported with a network of approximately 88 cross-dock locations nationwide, with 98% of the continental u.s. population living within 150 miles of a cross-dock location. our customer contracts are long-term, ranging from three to 10 years with the average being approximately 3 1/2 years. pricing of our contracts typically involves cost-plus arrangements, with our fixed costs being recovered regardless of equipment utilization, but are customized based on invested capital and duration. at december 31, 2012, this segment operated 4,844 company-owned trucks, 394 customer-owned trucks, and 15 independent contractor trucks. the dcs segment employed 7,166 people at december 31, 2012, 5,907 of whom were drivers. dcs revenue for 2012 was $1.1 billion. ics segment ics provides traditional freight brokerage and transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and integration with our owned equipment. by leveraging the j.b. hunt brand, systems and network, we provide a broader service offering to customers by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited and ltl, as well as a variety of dry-van and intermodal solutions. ics provides single-source logistics management for customers that desire to outsource their transportation functions and utilize our proven supply-chain technology and design expertise to improve efficiency. ics operates 15 remote sales offices or branches, as well as on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with customers. at december 31, 2012, the ics segment employed 453 people, with a carrier base of approximately 32,300. ics revenue for 2012 was $456 million. jbt segment the service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing tractors operating over roads and highways. we typically pick up freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. we use our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport freight in our trailers. at december 31, 2012, the jbt segment operated 1,192 company-owned tractors and employed 1,674 people, 1,282 of whom were drivers. at december 31, 2012, we had 901 independent contractors operating in the jbt segment, some of whom were leasing company-owned tractors. jbt revenue for 2012 was $484 million. 4 marketing and operations we transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances, forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and cosmetics, automotive parts, electronics, and chemicals. our customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. we provide a broad range of transportation services to shippers seeking to use a variety of transportation options to optimize their supply-chain logistics needs. we generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. we use a specific sales force in dcs due to the length, complexity and specialization of the sales cycle. in addition, ics utilizes its own local branch salespeople. in accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. people we believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. as of december 31, 2012, we had 16,475 employees, which consisted of 11,048 company drivers, 4,300 office personnel and 1,127 maintenance technicians. we also had arrangements with approximately 1,388 independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing equipment. none of our employees are represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. revenue equipment our jbi segment utilizes uniquely designed high-cube containers and chassis, which can only be paired with each other and can be separated to allow the containers to be double-stacked on rail cars. the composition of our dcs trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks and dump trailers. we primarily utilize third-party carriers' tractor and trailing equipment for our ics segment. our jbt segment operates primarily with 53-foot dry-van trailers. as of december 31, 2012, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 9,160 units. in addition, we had approximately 1,388 independent contractors who operate their own tractors but transport freight in our trailing equipment. we operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our jbi and jbt fleets. due to our customers' preferences and the actual business application, our dcs fleet is extremely diversified. we believe that operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers and lowers maintenance expense. at december 31, 2012, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.6 years, our containers averaged 4.3 years of age and our trailers averaged 9.5 years. we perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at our regional terminal facilities. effective with model-year 2010 engines, the epa has mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractors. the 2010 epa-compliant engines have shown no material decrease in miles per gallon and a slight increase in operating costs due to more stringent maintenance procedures compared with prior engine standards due to exhaust gas recirculation (egr) and selective catalytic reduction (scr) technology, which achieve lower emissions. competition and the industry the freight transportation markets in which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and competitive. our jbi segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies, other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation service, and, to a certain extent, some railroads directly. the diversified nature of the services provided by our dcs segment attracts competition from customers' private fleets, other private fleet outsourcing companies, equipment leasing companies, local and regional delivery service providers, and some truckload carriers. our ics segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers. the full-load freight competition of our jbt segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. while we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country. 5 we compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery service, availability and type of equipment capacity, and availability of carriers for logistics services. regulation our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) and the federal motor carrier safety administration (fmcsa), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. the dot periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the dot. our operations into and out of canada and mexico are subject to regulation by those countries. in february, 2011, the fmcsa published a notice of proposed rulemaking to require currently logging drivers to complete their logs using an electronic on-board recorder (eobr) and accepted comments from the public. this proposal is ongoing. in december 2011, the fmcsa amended the hours-of-service (hos) safety requirements for commercial truck drivers. some provisions of the hos final rule became effective february 27, 2012; others are effective july 1, 2013. while we are currently evaluating the impact of the final rule on various segments of our operations to determine implications, we expect some negative impact on our productivity. in july 2012, president obama signed into law the moving ahead for progress in the 21st century act (map-21), which included a variety of requirements relating to the transportation industry. we are currently evaluating the impact of map-21, but do not anticipate a negative impact on our operations or productivity. we continue to monitor the actions of the fmcsa and other regulatory agencies and evaluate all proposed rules to determine their impact on our operations. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this form 10-k and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. our business is subject to general economic and business factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. economic trends and the tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect our ability, and the ability of our customers and suppliers, to obtain financing for operations and capital expenditures. our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include interference with, or termination of, our relationships with certain railroads, significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel taxes, interest rates, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, excess capacity in the intermodal or trucking industries, license and registration fees, terrorist attacks or actions, acts of war, adverse weather conditions, increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, independent contractors and third-party carriers. we are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers' business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. in addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. 6 we depend on third parties in the operation of our business. our jbi business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. the majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. while we have agreements with a number of class i railroads, the majority of our business travels on the burlington northern santa fe and the norfolk southern railways. the inability to utilize one or more of these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. in addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the united states through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business. our ics and jbt business segments utilize third parties to complete their services. these third parties are subject to similar regulation requirements, which may have a more significant impact on their operations, causing them to exit the transportation industry. aside from use of our trailing equipment to fulfill jbt loads and periodic use of our trailing equipment to fulfill certain ics loads, we do not own the revenue equipment or control the drivers delivering these loads. the inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth. rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. fuel costs can be very volatile. we have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. however, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. in addition, we incur additional costs when fuel price increases cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. as of december 31, 2012, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. if the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. we have policies in place for 2013 with substantially the same terms as our 2012 policies for personal injury, workers' compensation, cargo and property damage, with the exception of changing to a $100,000 deductible per claim for workers' compensation coverage. we purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. if these expenses increase and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2012, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 30% of our revenue. our jbi, ics and jbt segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. while our dcs segment business may involve a long-term written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or continue at the same levels. a reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 7 we operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. the dot and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety and financial reporting. we are audited periodically by the dot to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. if we were found to be out of compliance, the dot could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. significant changes in hours-of-service regulations and other motor carrier safety regulations could negatively impact our operations due to lower driver productivity or increased capital expenditures for monitoring and recordkeeping equipment. in december 2011, the fmcsa amended the hours-of-service (hos) safety requirements for commercial truck drivers. some provisions of the hos final rule became effective february 27, 2012; others are effective july 1, 2013. while we are currently evaluating the impact of the final rule on various segments of our operations to determine implications, we expect some negative impact on our productivity. difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers, delivery personnel and third-party carriers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. if we are unable to attract and retain the necessary quality and number of employees or contract with enough independent contractors, we could be required to significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle or dispose of the equipment altogether, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. in addition, our growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers upon whom we rely to provide transportation services. we operate in a competitive and highly fragmented industry. numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. we compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with ltl carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. additionally, some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or to maintain our profit margins. in an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects so-called core carriers as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. also, certain customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby reducing their need for our services. extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results. certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our operations. increases in the cost of our operations, such as towing and other maintenance activities, frequently occur during the winter months. natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and increase our costs. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. we operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. we also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. if a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. if we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 23 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk can be quantified by measuring the financial impact of a near-term adverse increase in short-term interest rates on variable-rate debt outstanding. of our total $685.3 million of debt, we had $285.8 million of variable-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2012, under our revolving lines of credit and our senior term loan. these have variable interest rates, which are based on the prime rate, the federal funds rate or libor, depending upon the specific type of borrowing, plus an applicable margin based on our credit rating and other fees. our earnings would be affected by changes in these short-term variable interest rates. at our current level of borrowing, a one percentage point increase in our applicable rate would reduce annual pretax earnings by $2.9 million. our remaining debt is fixed-rate debt, and therefore changes in market interest rates do not directly impact our interest expense. periodically, we enter into derivative instruments in response to market interest rates; however, at december 31, 2012, we had no such derivative financial instruments in place. although we conduct business in foreign countries, international operations are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. additionally, foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material to our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2012. accordingly, we are not currently subject to material foreign currency exchange rate risks from the effects that exchange rate movements of foreign currencies would have on our future costs or on future cash flows we would receive from our foreign investment. to date, we have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the price and availability of diesel fuel are subject to fluctuations due to changes in the level of global oil production, seasonality, weather and other market factors. historically, we have been able to recover a majority of fuel-price increases from our customers in the form of fuel surcharges. we cannot predict the extent to which high fuel price levels will continue in the future or the extent to which fuel surcharges could be collected to offset such increases. as of december 31, 2012, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations.risk factors 6 we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason. part i item 1. business overview we are one of the largest surface transportation, delivery, and logistics companies in north america. j.b. hunt transport services, inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries, provides safe and reliable transportation and delivery services to a diverse group of customers and consumers throughout the continental united states, canada, and mexico. unless otherwise indicated by the context, we, us, our , and jbht refer to j.b. hunt transport services, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. we were incorporated in arkansas on august 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. our service offerings include transportation of full-truckload containerized freight, which we directly transport utilizing our company-controlled revenue equipment and company drivers or independent contractors. we have arrangements with most of the major north american rail carriers to transport freight in containers or trailers. we also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor, systems, and delivery services that are tailored to meet individual customers' requirements and typically involve long-term contracts. these arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized equipment, and freight network design. our local and home delivery services typically are provided through a network of cross-dock service centers throughout the continental united states. utilizing a network of thousands of reliable third-party carriers, we also provide comprehensive transportation and logistics services. in addition to full-load, dry-van operations, these unrelated outside carriers also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload (ltl), and other specialized equipment, drivers, and services. our customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. 2 we believe our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. these segments include intermodal (jbi), dedicated contract services (dcs), integrated capacity solutions (ics), and truck (jbt). our business is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during august through early november. our dcs segment is subject to somewhat less seasonal variation than our other segments. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2013, our consolidated revenue totaled $5.6 billion, after the elimination of intersegment business. of this total, 62% was generated by our jbi business segment, 22% by dcs, 9% by ics, and 7% by jbt. for the year ended december 31, 2012, jbi represented 61%, dcs 21%, ics 9%, and jbt 9% of our consolidated revenue. for the year ended december 31, 2011, jbi represented 59%, dcs 23%, ics 7%, and jbt 11% of our consolidated revenue. additional general information about us is available on our internet website at www.jbhunt.com . we make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website, including our annual report on form 10-k, our proxy statement, and our earnings releases. our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, board committee charters, and other corporate policies. the information on our website is not, and shall not, be deemed to be a part of this annual report on form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. our mission and strategy we forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategy. working in concert, we drive out cost, add value and function as an extension of their enterprise. our strategy is based on utilizing an integrated, multimodal approach to provide capacity-oriented solutions centered on delivering customer value and industry-leading service. we believe our unique operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders. we continually analyze where we believe additional capital should be invested and management's resources should be focused to provide added benefits to our customers. these actions should, in turn, yield increasing returns to our stockholders. increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions. our intermodal service addresses both demands. further, we are customizing dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon emissions. efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and we are an environmental protection agency (epa) smartway sm transport partner. as always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as safely as possible. operating segments segment information is also included in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. jbi segment the transportation service offerings of our jbi segment utilize arrangements with most major north american rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental united states, canada, and mexico. our jbi segment began operations in 1989, forming a unique partnership with what is now the bnsf railway company; this was a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint service environment. jbi draws on the intermodal services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment between rail ramps. the origin and destination pickup and delivery services ( drayage ) are handled by our company-owned tractors for the majority of our intermodal loads, while third-party dray carriers are used where economical. by performing our own drayage services, we are able to provide a cost-competitive, seamless coordination of the combined rail and dray movements for our customers. jbi operates 65,979 pieces of company-owned trailing equipment systemwide. the fleet primarily consists of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. the company also owns and maintains its own chassis fleet, consisting of 59,882 units. the containers and chassis are uniquely designed so that they may only be paired together, which the company feels creates operational competitive advantage. jbi also manages a fleet of 3,448 company-owned tractors, 646 independent contractor trucks, and 4,187 company drivers who maintain our high service standards. at december 31, 2013, the total jbi employee count was 4,694. revenue for the jbi segment in 2013 was $3.5 billion. 3 dcs segment dcs focuses on private fleet conversion and creation in replenishment, specialized equipment, and final-mile delivery services. we also specialize in the design, development, and execution of supply-chain solutions that support a variety of transportation networks. our final-mile delivery services are supported with a network of approximately 89 cross-dock locations nationwide, with 98% of the continental u.s. population living within 150 miles of a cross-dock location. our customer contracts are long-term, ranging from three to ten years, with the average being approximately three and a half years. pricing of our contracts typically involves cost-plus arrangements, with our fixed costs being recovered regardless of equipment utilization, but is customized based on invested capital and duration. at december 31, 2013, this segment operated 5,805 company-owned trucks, 592 customer-owned trucks, and 10 independent contractor trucks. dcs also operates approximately 12,500 owned pieces of trailing equipment and approximately 6,500 customer-owned trailers. the dcs segment employed 8,736 people at december 31, 2013, 7,239 of whom were drivers. dcs revenue for 2013 was $1.2 billion. ics segment ics provides traditional freight brokerage and transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and integration with our owned equipment. by leveraging the j.b. hunt brand, systems, and network, we provide a broader service offering to customers by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited, and ltl, as well as a variety of dry-van and intermodal solutions. ics provides single-source logistics management for customers desiring to outsource their transportation functions and utilize our proven supply-chain technology and design expertise to improve efficiency. ics operates 24 remote sales offices or branches, as well as on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with customers. at december 31, 2013, the ics segment employed 503 people, with a carrier base of approximately 34,600. ics revenue for 2013 was $537 million. jbt segment the service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing tractors operating over roads and highways. we typically pick up freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. we use our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport freight in our trailers. at december 31, 2013, the jbt segment operated 1,200 company-owned tractors and employed 1,491 people, 1,206 of whom were drivers. at december 31, 2013, we had 657 independent contractors operating in the jbt segment, some of whom were leasing company-owned tractors. jbt revenue for 2013 was $391 million. marketing and operations we transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances, forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and cosmetics, automotive parts, agricultural products, electronics, and chemicals. our customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. we provide a broad range of transportation services to shippers seeking to use a variety of transportation options to optimize their supply-chain logistics needs. we generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. we use a specific sales force in dcs due to the length, complexity, and specialization of the sales cycle. in addition, ics utilizes its own local branch salespeople. in accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services, and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. 4 people we believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. as of december 31, 2013, we had 18,467 employees, which consisted of 12,632 company drivers, 4,651 office personnel, and 1,184 maintenance technicians. we also had arrangements with approximately 1,313 independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing equipment. none of our employees are represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. revenue equipment our jbi segment utilizes uniquely designed high-cube containers and chassis, which can only be paired with each other and can be separated to allow the containers to be double-stacked on rail cars. the composition of our dcs trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks, and dump trailers. we primarily utilize third-party carriers' tractor and trailing equipment for our ics segment. our jbt segment operates primarily with 53-foot dry-van trailers. as of december 31, 2013, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 10,453 units. in addition, we had approximately 1,313 independent contractors who operate their own tractors but transport freight in our trailing equipment. we operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our jbi and jbt fleets. due to our customers' preferences and the actual business application, our dcs fleet is extremely diversified. we believe operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers, and lowers maintenance expense. at december 31, 2013, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.7 years, while our containers averaged 4.7 years of age and our trailers averaged 10.3 years. we perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at our regional terminal facilities. competition and the industry the freight transportation markets in which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and competitive. our jbi segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies; other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation service; and, to a certain extent, some railroads directly. the diversified nature of the services provided by our dcs segment attracts competition from customers' private fleets, other private fleet outsourcing companies, equipment leasing companies, local and regional delivery service providers, and some truckload carriers. our ics segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers. the full-load freight competition of our jbt segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. while we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country. we compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery service, availability and type of equipment capacity, and availability of carriers for logistics services. regulation our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) and the federal motor carrier safety administration (fmcsa), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. the dot periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the dot. our operations into and out of canada and mexico are subject to regulation by those countries. in 2011, the fmcsa amended the hours-of-service (hos) safety requirements for commercial truck drivers. the remaining provisions of the hos final rule became effective july 1, 2013. while we continue to evaluate and adjust to the impact of the final rule on various segments of our operations, we have experienced some negative impact on our productivity. 5 in 2011, the fmcsa published a notice of proposed rulemaking to require currently logging drivers to complete their logs using an electronic on-board recorder (eobr). the final rule regarding this proposal is expected to be published in the first quarter of 2014. since the issuance of this proposal, we have successfully implemented a plan to replace any legacy on-board recording equipment within our fleets. we do not anticipate a negative impact on our operations or productivity. in 2013, the fmcsa, in conjunction with the national highway traffic safety administration, submitted a notice of proposed rulemaking to require the installation of speed-limiting devices on heavy trucks. the final rule regarding this proposal is expected to be published in the third quarter of 2014. we believe this rule will have minimal implementation cost, as all of our heavy trucks subject to this rule already have these devices installed. we do not anticipate a negative impact on our operations or productivity. in february 2014, the fmcsa published a notice of proposed rulemaking establishing a commercial driver's license drug and alcohol clearinghouse. this rule will establish a database of commercial driver license holders that have failed or refused a controlled substance or alcohol test. the rule will require carriers to report positive test results and refusals to test into the clearinghouse and query the database when hiring drivers. we anticipate that the establishment of the clearinghouse may create efficiencies within our driver hiring process. we continue to monitor the actions of the fmcsa and other regulatory agencies and evaluate all proposed rules to determine their impact on our operations. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this form 10-k and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. our business is subject to general economic and business factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. economic trends and the tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect our ability, and the ability of our customers and suppliers, to obtain financing for operations and capital expenditures. our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include interference with or termination of our relationships with certain railroads; significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel taxes, interest rates, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, excess capacity in the intermodal or trucking industries, or license and registration fees; terrorist attacks or actions; acts of war; adverse weather conditions; disruption or failure of information systems; increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment; and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, independent contractors, and third-party carriers. we are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers' business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. in addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. 6 we depend on third parties in the operation of our business. our jbi business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. the majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. while we have agreements with a number of class i railroads, the majority of our business travels on the burlington northern santa fe and the norfolk southern railways. the inability to utilize one or more of these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. in addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the united states through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business. our ics and jbt business segments utilize third parties to complete their services. these third parties are subject to similar regulation requirements, which may have a more significant impact on their operations, causing them to exit the transportation industry. aside from use of our trailing equipment to fulfill jbt loads and periodic use of our trailing equipment to fulfill certain ics loads, we do not own the revenue equipment or control the drivers delivering these loads. the inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth. rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. fuel costs can be very volatile. we have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. however, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. in addition, we incur additional costs when fuel price increases cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. as of december 31, 2013, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. if the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. we have policies in place for 2014 with substantially the same terms as our 2013 policies for personal injury, property damage, workers' compensation, and cargo loss or damage. we purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. if these expenses increase and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2013, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 29% of our revenue. our jbi, ics, and jbt segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. while our dcs segment business may involve a long-term written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or continue at the same levels. a reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. we operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. the dot and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety, and financial reporting. we are audited periodically by the dot to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. if we were found to be out of compliance, the dot could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. 7 difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers, delivery personnel, and third-party carriers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. if we are unable to attract and retain the necessary quality and number of employees or contract with enough independent contractors, we could be required to significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle, or dispose of the equipment altogether, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. in addition, our growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers upon whom we rely to provide transportation services. we operate in a competitive and highly fragmented industry. numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. we compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with ltl carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. additionally, some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or to maintain our profit margins. in an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects so-called core carriers as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected. many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. also, certain customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby reducing their need for our services. extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes, and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results. certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our operations. increases in the cost of our operations, such as towing and other maintenance activities, frequently occur during the winter months. natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and increase our costs. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. we operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. we also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. if a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. if we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 23 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk can be quantified by measuring the financial impact of a near-term adverse increase in short-term interest rates on variable-rate debt outstanding. of our total $708.4 million of debt, we had $358.7 million of variable-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2013, under our revolving lines of credit and our senior term loan. these have variable interest rates, which are based on the prime rate, the federal funds rate, or libor, depending upon the specific type of borrowing, plus an applicable margin based on our credit rating and other fees. our earnings would be affected by changes in these short-term variable interest rates. at our current level of borrowing, a one-percentage-point increase in our applicable rate would reduce annual pretax earnings by $3.6 million. our remaining debt is fixed-rate debt, and therefore changes in market interest rates do not directly impact our interest expense. periodically, we enter into derivative instruments in response to market interest rates; however, at december 31, 2013, we had no such derivative financial instruments in place. although we conduct business in foreign countries, international operations are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. additionally, foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material to our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2013. accordingly, we are not currently subject to material foreign currency exchange rate risks from the effects that exchange rate movements of foreign currencies would have on our future costs or on future cash flows we would receive from our foreign investment. to date, we have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the price and availability of diesel fuel are subject to fluctuations due to changes in the level of global oil production, seasonality, weather, and other market factors. historically, we have been able to recover a majority of fuel-price increases from our customers in the form of fuel surcharges. we cannot predict the extent to which high fuel price levels will continue in the future or the extent to which fuel surcharges could be collected to offset such increases. as of december 31, 2013, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. 23risk factors 6 we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason. part i item 1. business overview we are one of the largest surface transportation, delivery, and logistics companies in north america. j.b. hunt transport services, inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries, provides safe and reliable transportation and delivery services to a diverse group of customers and consumers throughout the continental united states, canada, and mexico. unless otherwise indicated by the context, we, us, our, and jbht refer to j.b. hunt transport services, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. we were incorporated in arkansas on august 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. our service offerings include transportation of full-truckload containerized freight, which we directly transport utilizing our company-controlled revenue equipment and company drivers or independent contractors. we have arrangements with most of the major north american rail carriers to transport freight in containers or trailers. we also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor, systems, and delivery services that are tailored to meet individual customers' requirements and typically involve long-term contracts. these arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized equipment, and freight network design. our local and home delivery services typically are provided through a network of cross-dock service centers throughout the continental united states. utilizing a network of thousands of reliable third-party carriers, we also provide comprehensive transportation and logistics services. in addition to full-load, dry-van operations, these unrelated outside carriers also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload (ltl), and other specialized equipment, drivers, and services. our customers' business activities are extremely diverse, and our customer base includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. we believe our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. these segments include intermodal (jbi), dedicated contract services (dcs), integrated capacity solutions (ics), and truck (jbt). our business is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during august through early november. our dcs segment is subject to somewhat less seasonal variation than our other segments. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2014, our consolidated revenue totaled $6.2 billion, after the elimination of intersegment business. of this total, 60% was generated by our jbi business segment, 22% by dcs, 12% by ics, and 6% by jbt. for the year ended december 31, 2013, jbi represented 62%, dcs 22%, ics 9%, and jbt 7% of our consolidated revenue. for the year ended december 31, 2012, jbi represented 61%, dcs 21%, ics 9%, and jbt 9% of our consolidated revenue. 2 additional general information about us is available at www.jbhunt.com. we make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website, including our annual report on form 10-k, our proxy statement, and our earnings releases. our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, board committee charters, and other corporate policies. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be a part of this annual report on form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. our mission and strategy we forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategies. working in concert, we strive to drive out excess cost, add value and function as an extension of their enterprises. our strategy is based on utilizing an integrated, multimodal approach to provide capacity-oriented solutions centered on delivering customer value and industry-leading service. we believe our unique operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders. we continually analyze where we believe additional capital should be invested and management's resources should be focused to provide added benefits to our customers. these actions should, in turn, yield increasing returns to our stockholders. increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions. our intermodal service addresses both demands. further, we are customizing dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon emissions. efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and we are an environmental protection agency (epa) smartway sm transport partner. as always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as safely as possible. operating segments segment information is also included in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. jbi segment the transportation service offerings of our jbi segment utilize arrangements with most major north american rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental united states, canada, and mexico. our jbi segment began operations in 1989, forming a unique partnership with what is now the bnsf railway company; this was a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint service environment. jbi draws on the intermodal services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment between rail ramps. the origin and destination pickup and delivery services ( drayage ) are handled by our company-owned tractors for the majority of our intermodal loads, while third-party dray carriers are used where economical. by performing our own drayage services, we are able to provide a cost-competitive, seamless coordination of the combined rail and dray movements for our customers. jbi operates 73,298 pieces of company-owned trailing equipment systemwide. the fleet primarily consists of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. we own and maintain our own chassis fleet, consisting of 65,455 units. the containers and chassis are uniquely designed so that they may only be paired together, which we feel creates an operational competitive advantage. jbi also manages a fleet of 3,916 company-owned tractors, 761 independent contractor trucks, and 4,756 company drivers. at december 31, 2014, the total jbi employee count was 5,340. revenue for the jbi segment in 2014 was $3.7 billion. 3 dcs segment dcs focuses on private fleet conversion and creation in replenishment, specialized equipment, and final-mile delivery services. we specialize in the design, development, and execution of supply-chain solutions that support a variety of transportation networks. our final-mile delivery services are supported with a network of approximately 89 cross-dock locations nationwide, with 98% of the continental u.s. population living within 150 miles of a cross-dock location. contracts with our customers are long-term, ranging from three to ten years, with the average being approximately five years. pricing of our contracts typically involves cost-plus arrangements, with our fixed costs being recovered regardless of equipment utilization, but is customized based on invested capital and duration. at december 31, 2014, this segment operated 6,425 company-owned trucks, 448 customer-owned trucks, and 7 independent contractor trucks. dcs also operates 13,852 owned pieces of trailing equipment and 6,664 customer-owned trailers. the dcs segment employed 9,466 people, including 7,833 drivers, at december 31, 2014. dcs revenue for 2014 was $1.4 billion. ics segment ics provides traditional freight brokerage and transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and integration with our owned equipment. by leveraging the j.b. hunt brand, systems, and network, we provide a broader service offering to customers by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited, and ltl, as well as a variety of dry-van and intermodal solutions. ics provides single-source logistics management for customers desiring to outsource their transportation functions and utilize our proven supply-chain technology and design expertise to improve efficiency. ics operates 29 remote sales offices or branches, as well as on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with customers. at december 31, 2014, the ics segment employed 582 people, with a carrier base of approximately 39,100. ics revenue for 2014 was $718 million. jbt segment the service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing tractors operating over roads and highways. we typically pick up freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. we use our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport freight in our trailers. at december 31, 2014, the jbt segment operated 1,296 company-owned tractors and employed 1,604 people, 1,378 of whom were drivers. at december 31, 2014, we had 590 independent contractors operating in the jbt segment. jbt revenue for 2014 was $386 million. marketing and operations we transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances, forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and cosmetics, automotive parts, agricultural products, electronics, and chemicals. our customers' business activities are extremely diverse, and our customer base includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. we provide a broad range of transportation services to shippers seeking to use a variety of transportation options to optimize their supply-chain logistics needs. we generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. we use a specific sales force in dcs due to the length, complexity, and specialization of the sales cycle. in addition, ics utilizes its own local branch salespeople. in accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services, and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. 4 people we believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. as of december 31, 2014, we had 20,158 employees, which consisted of 13,967 company drivers, 5,059 office personnel, and 1,132 maintenance technicians. we also had arrangements with approximately 1,358 independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing equipment. none of our employees are represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. revenue equipment our jbi segment utilizes uniquely designed high-cube containers and chassis, which can only be paired with each other and can be separated to allow the containers to be double-stacked on rail cars. the composition of our dcs trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks, and dump trailers. we primarily utilize third-party carriers' tractor and trailing equipment for our ics segment. our jbt segment operates primarily with 53-foot dry-van trailers. as of december 31, 2014, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 11,637 units. in addition, we had 1,358 independent contractors who operate their own tractors but transport freight in our trailing equipment. we operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our jbi and jbt fleets. due to our customers' preferences and the actual business application, our dcs fleet is extremely diversified. we believe operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers, and lowers maintenance expense. at december 31, 2014, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.3 years, while our containers averaged 5.2 years of age and our trailers averaged 9.5 years. we perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at our regional terminal facilities. competition and the industry the freight transportation markets in which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and competitive. our jbi segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies; other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation service; and, to a certain extent, some railroads directly. the diversified nature of the services provided by our dcs segment attracts competition from customers' private fleets, other private fleet outsourcing companies, equipment leasing companies, local and regional delivery service providers, and some truckload carriers. our ics segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers. the full-load freight competition of our jbt segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. while we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country. we compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery service, availability and type of equipment capacity, and availability of carriers for logistics services. regulation our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) and the federal motor carrier safety administration (fmcsa), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. the dot periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the dot. our operations into and out of canada and mexico are subject to regulation by those countries. in 2011, the fmcsa amended the hours-of-service (hos) safety requirements for commercial truck drivers. the remaining provisions of the amended hos rules became effective july 1, 2013, and we experienced some negative impact on our productivity as a result. however, in december 2014, as a result of the consolidated and further continuing appropriations act of 2015, the fmcsa was required to rescind the 34-hour restart provision of the amended hos rules to the pre-july 1, 2013, requirements. furthermore, the fmcsa was required to conduct a field study measuring the safety benefit of the amended hos rules before and after this rule change. this rule rescission is considered temporary pending the outcome of the study. we continue to evaluate and adjust the various segments of our operations toward the ultimate impact of these changes in hos safety requirements. 5 in 2011, the fmcsa published a notice of proposed rulemaking to require currently logging drivers to complete their logs using an electronic logging device (eld). the final rule regarding this proposal is expected to be published in the third quarter of 2015. since the issuance of this proposal, we have successfully implemented a plan to replace any legacy on-board recording equipment within our fleets. at december 31, 2014, we had replaced approximately 90% of this equipment. we do not anticipate a negative impact on our operations or productivity. in 2013, the fmcsa, in conjunction with the national highway traffic safety administration, submitted a notice of proposed rulemaking to require the installation of speed-limiting devices on heavy trucks. the final rule regarding this proposal is expected to be published in the third quarter of 2015. we believe this rule will have minimal implementation cost, as all of our heavy trucks subject to this rule already have these devices installed. we do not anticipate a negative impact on our operations or productivity. we continue to monitor the actions of the fmcsa and other regulatory agencies and evaluate all proposed rules to determine their impact on our operations. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this form 10-k and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. our business is subject to general economic and business factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. economic trends and the tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect our ability, and the ability of our customers and suppliers, to obtain financing for operations and capital expenditures. our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include interference with or termination of our relationships with certain railroads; disruptions to u.s. port-of-call activity; significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel taxes, interest rates, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, excess capacity in the intermodal or trucking industries, or license and registration fees; terrorist attacks or actions; acts of war; adverse weather conditions; disruption or failure of information technology systems; increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment; increased tariffs assessed on or disruptions in the procurement of imported revenue equipment; and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, independent contractors, and third-party carriers. we are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers' business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. in addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. we depend on third parties in the operation of our business. our jbi business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. the majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. while we have agreements with a number of class i railroads, the majority of our business travels on the burlington northern santa fe and the norfolk southern railways. a material change in the relationship with or the inability to utilize one or more of these railroads or the overall service levels provided by these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. in addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the united states through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business. 6 we also utilize independent contractors and third-party carriers to complete our services. these third parties are subject to similar regulation requirements, which may have a more significant impact on their operations, causing them to exit the transportation industry. aside from when these third parties may use our trailing equipment to fulfill loads, we do not own the revenue equipment or control the drivers delivering these loads. the inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers and independent contractors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth. rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. fuel costs can be very volatile. we have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. however, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. in addition, we incur additional costs when fuel price increases cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. as of december 31, 2014, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. if the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. we have policies in place for 2015 with substantially the same terms as our 2014 policies for personal injury, property damage, workers' compensation, and cargo loss or damage. we purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. if these expenses increase and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2014, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 28% of our revenue. our jbi, ics, and jbt segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. while our dcs segment business may involve a long-term written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or continue at the same levels. a reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. we operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. the dot and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety, and financial reporting. we are audited periodically by the dot to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. if we were found to be out of compliance, the dot could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. 7 difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers and delivery personnel could affect our profitability and ability to grow. if we are unable to attract and retain the necessary quality and number of employees, we could be required to significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle, dispose of the equipment altogether, or rely more on higher-cost third-party carriers, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. in addition, our growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers upon whom we rely to provide transportation services. we rely significantly on our information technology systems, a disruption, failure or security breach of which could have a material adverse effect on our business . we rely on information technology throughout all areas of our business to initiate, track, and complete customer orders; process financial and nonfinancial data; compile results of operations for internal and external reporting; and achieve operating efficiencies and growth. our information technology systems may be susceptible to various interruptions, including equipment or network failures, failed upgrades or replacement of software, user error, power outages, natural disasters, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, hackers, or other security breaches. we have mitigated our exposure to these risks through the establishment and maintenance of technology security programs and disaster recovery plans, but these mitigating activities may not be sufficient. a significant disruption, failure or security breach in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, which could include operational disruptions, loss of confidential information, external reporting delays or errors, legal claims, or damage to our business reputation. we operate in a competitive and highly fragmented industry. numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. we compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with ltl carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. additionally, some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or to maintain our profit margins. in an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects so-called core carriers as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected. many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. also, certain customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby reducing their need for our services. extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes , and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results. certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our operations. increases in the cost of our operations, such as towing and other maintenance activities, frequently occur during the winter months. natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and increase our costs. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. we operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. we also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. if a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. if we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 23 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk can be quantified by measuring the financial impact of a near-term adverse increase in short-term interest rates on variable-rate debt outstanding. our total long-term debt consists of both fixed and variable interest rate facilities. our senior notes have fixed interest rates ranging from 2.40% to 3.85%. these fixed-rate facilities reduce the impact of changes to market interest rates on future interest expense. our senior revolving line of credit has variable interest rates, which are based on the prime rate, the federal funds rate, or libor, depending upon the specific type of borrowing, plus any applicable margins. we currently have an interest rate swap agreement which effectively converts our $250 million of 2.40% fixed-rate senior notes due march 2019 to a variable rate. the applicable interest rate under this agreement is based on libor plus an established margin. our earnings would be affected by changes in these short-term variable interest rates. at our current level of borrowing, a one-percentage-point increase in our applicable rate would reduce annual pretax earnings by $4.3 million. although we conduct business in foreign countries, international operations are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. additionally, foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material to our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2014. accordingly, we are not currently subject to material foreign currency exchange rate risks from the effects that exchange rate movements of foreign currencies would have on our future costs or on future cash flows we would receive from our foreign investment. to date, we have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the price and availability of diesel fuel are subject to fluctuations due to changes in the level of global oil production, seasonality, weather, and other market factors. historically, we have been able to recover a majority of fuel-price increases from our customers in the form of fuel surcharges. we cannot predict the extent to which volatile fluctuations in fuel prices will continue in the future or the extent to which fuel surcharges could be collected to offset fuel-price increases. as of december 31, 2014, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. 23risk factors 6 we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason. part i item 1. business overview we are one of the largest surface transportation, delivery, and logistics companies in north america. j.b. hunt transport services, inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries, provides safe and reliable transportation and delivery services to a diverse group of customers and consumers throughout the continental united states, canada, and mexico. unless otherwise indicated by the context, we, us, our, and jbht refer to j.b. hunt transport services, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. we were incorporated in arkansas on august 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. our service offerings include transportation of full-truckload containerized freight, which we directly transport utilizing our company-controlled revenue equipment and company drivers or independent contractors. we have arrangements with most of the major north american rail carriers to transport freight in containers or trailers. we also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor, systems, and delivery services that are tailored to meet individual customers' requirements and typically involve long-term contracts. these arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized equipment, and freight network design. our local and home delivery services typically are provided through a network of cross-dock service centers throughout the continental united states. utilizing a network of thousands of reliable third-party carriers, we also provide comprehensive transportation and logistics services. in addition to full-load, dry-van operations, these unrelated outside carriers also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload (ltl), and other specialized equipment, drivers, and services. our customers' business activities are extremely diverse, and our customer base includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. 2 we believe our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. these segments include intermodal (jbi), dedicated contract services (dcs), integrated capacity solutions (ics), and truck (jbt). our business is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during august through early november. our dcs segment is subject to somewhat less seasonal variation than our other segments. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2015, our consolidated revenue totaled $6.2 billion, after the elimination of intersegment business. of this total, 59% was generated by our jbi business segment, 24% by dcs, 11% by ics, and 6% by jbt. for the year ended december 31, 2014, jbi represented 60%, dcs 22%, ics 12%, and jbt 6% of our consolidated revenue. for the year ended december 31, 2013, jbi represented 62%, dcs 22%, ics 9%, and jbt 7% of our consolidated revenue. additional general information about us is available at www.jbhunt.com. we make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website, including our annual report on form 10-k, our proxy statement, and our earnings releases. our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, board committee charters, and other corporate policies. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be a part of this annual report on form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. our mission and strategy we forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategies. working in concert, we strive to drive out excess cost, add value and function as an extension of their enterprises. our strategy is based on utilizing an integrated, multimodal approach to provide capacity-oriented solutions centered on delivering customer value and industry-leading service. we believe our unique operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders. we continually analyze where we believe additional capital should be invested and management's resources should be focused to provide added benefits to our customers. these actions should, in turn, yield increasing returns to our stockholders. increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions. our intermodal service addresses both demands. further, we are customizing dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon emissions. efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and we are an environmental protection agency (epa) smartway sm transport partner. as always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as safely as possible. operating segments segment information is also included in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. jbi segment the transportation service offerings of our jbi segment utilize arrangements with most major north american rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental united states, canada, and mexico. our jbi segment began operations in 1989, forming a unique partnership with what is now the bnsf railway company; this was a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint service environment. jbi draws on the intermodal services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment between rail ramps. the origin and destination pickup and delivery services ( drayage ) are handled by our company-owned tractors for the majority of our intermodal loads, while third-party dray carriers are used where economical. by performing our own drayage services, we are able to provide a cost-competitive, seamless coordination of the combined rail and dray movements for our customers. jbi operates 78,957 pieces of company-owned trailing equipment systemwide. the fleet primarily consists of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. we own and maintain our own chassis fleet, consisting of 68,076 units. the containers and chassis are uniquely designed so that they may only be paired together, which we feel creates an operational competitive advantage. jbi also manages a fleet of 4,276 company-owned tractors, 805 independent contractor trucks, and 5,172 company drivers. at december 31, 2015, the total jbi employee count was 5,838. revenue for the jbi segment in 2015 was $3.66 billion. 3 dcs segment dcs focuses on private fleet conversion and creation in replenishment, specialized equipment, and final-mile delivery services. we specialize in the design, development, and execution of supply-chain solutions that support a variety of transportation networks. our final-mile delivery services are supported with a network of approximately 89 cross-dock locations nationwide, with 98% of the continental u.s. population living within 150 miles of a cross-dock location. contracts with our customers are long-term, ranging from three to ten years, with the average being approximately five years. pricing of our contracts typically involves cost-plus arrangements, with our fixed costs being recovered regardless of equipment utilization, but is customized based on invested capital and duration. at december 31, 2015, this segment operated 6,762 company-owned trucks, 436 customer-owned trucks, and 10 independent contractor trucks. dcs also operates 15,020 owned pieces of trailing equipment and 6,652 customer-owned trailers. the dcs segment employed 9,948 people, including 8,256 drivers, at december 31, 2015. dcs revenue for 2015 was $1.45 billion. ics segment ics provides traditional freight brokerage and transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and integration with our owned equipment. by leveraging the j.b. hunt brand, systems, and network, we provide a broader service offering to customers by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited, and ltl, as well as a variety of dry-van and intermodal solutions. ics provides single-source logistics management for customers desiring to outsource their transportation functions and utilize our proven supply-chain technology and design expertise to improve efficiency. ics operates 34 remote sales offices or branches, as well as on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with customers. at december 31, 2015, the ics segment employed 670 people, with a carrier base of approximately 45,700. ics revenue for 2015 was $699 million. jbt segment the service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing tractors operating over roads and highways. we typically pick up freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. we use our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport freight in our trailers. at december 31, 2015, the jbt segment operated 1,462 company-owned tractors and employed 1,847 people, 1,615 of whom were drivers. at december 31, 2015, we had 687 independent contractors operating in the jbt segment. jbt revenue for 2015 was $386 million. marketing and operations we transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances, forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and cosmetics, automotive parts, agricultural products, electronics, and chemicals. our customers' business activities are extremely diverse, and our customer base includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. we provide a broad range of transportation services to shippers seeking to use a variety of transportation options to optimize their supply-chain logistics needs. we generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. we use a specific sales force in dcs due to the length, complexity, and specialization of the sales cycle. in addition, ics utilizes its own local branch salespeople. in accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services, and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. 4 people we believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. as of december 31, 2015, we had 21,562 employees, which consisted of 15,043 company drivers, 5,397 office personnel, and 1,122 maintenance technicians. we also had arrangements with approximately 1,502 independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing equipment. none of our employees are represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. revenue equipment our jbi segment utilizes uniquely designed high-cube containers and chassis, which can only be paired with each other and can be separated to allow the containers to be double-stacked on rail cars. the composition of our dcs trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks, and dump trailers. we primarily utilize third-party carriers' tractor and trailing equipment for our ics segment. our jbt segment operates primarily with 53-foot dry-van trailers. as of december 31, 2015, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 12,500 units. in addition, we had 1,502 independent contractors who operate their own tractors but transport freight in our trailing equipment. we operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our jbi and jbt fleets. due to our customers' preferences and the actual business application, our dcs fleet is extremely diversified. we believe operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers, and lowers maintenance expense. at december 31, 2015, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 1.9 years, while our containers averaged 5.6 years of age and our trailers averaged 8.6 years. we perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at our regional terminal facilities. competition and the industry the freight transportation markets in which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and competitive. our jbi segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies; other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation service; and, to a certain extent, some railroads directly. the diversified nature of the services provided by our dcs segment attracts competition from customers' private fleets, other private fleet outsourcing companies, equipment leasing companies, local and regional delivery service providers, and some truckload carriers. our ics segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers. the full-load freight competition of our jbt segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. while we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country. we compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery service, availability and type of equipment capacity, and availability of carriers for logistics services. regulation our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) and the federal motor carrier safety administration (fmcsa), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. the dot periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the dot. our operations into and out of canada and mexico are subject to regulation by those countries. in 2013, the remaining provisions of the fmcsa's amendment to the hours-of-service (hos) safety requirements for commercial truck drivers became effective, and we experienced some negative impact on our productivity as a result. however, in december 2014, as a result of the consolidated and further continuing appropriations act of 2015, the fmcsa was required to rescind the 34-hour restart provision of the amended hos rules to the pre-july 1, 2013 requirements. furthermore, the fmcsa was required to conduct a field study measuring the safety benefit of the amended hos rules before and after this rule change. this rule rescission is considered temporary pending the outcome of the study. we continue to evaluate and adjust the various segments of our operations toward the ultimate impact of these changes in hos safety requirements. 5 in december 2015, the fmcsa published a final rule requiring logging drivers to complete their logs using an electronic logging device (eld). since the issuance of the initial proposal of this rule change, we have successfully implemented a plan to replace any legacy on-board recording equipment within our fleets. at december 31, 2015, we had replaced approximately 96% of this equipment and anticipate replacing the remaining equipment within the mandated timetable. we do not anticipate a negative impact on our operations. in 2013, the fmcsa, in conjunction with the national highway traffic safety administration, submitted a notice of proposed rulemaking to require the installation of speed-limiting devices on heavy trucks. the final rule regarding this proposal is expected to be published in the first quarter of 2016. we believe this rule will have minimal implementation cost, as all of our heavy trucks subject to this rule already have these devices installed. we do not anticipate a negative impact on our operations or productivity. we continue to monitor the actions of the fmcsa and other regulatory agencies and evaluate all proposed rules to determine their impact on our operations. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this form 10-k and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. in addition to general u.s. economic trends, and to a lesser extent global economic trends, these factors include interference with or termination of our relationships with certain railroads; rail service delays; disruptions to u.s. port-of-call activity; significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel taxes, interest rates, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, excess capacity in the intermodal or trucking industries, or license and registration fees; terrorist attacks or actions; acts of war; adverse weather conditions; disruption or failure of information technology systems; increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment; increased tariffs assessed on or disruptions in the procurement of imported revenue equipment; volatile financial credit markets; and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, independent contractors, and third-party carriers. we are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers' business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries where we have a significant concentration of customers. economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. in addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. we depend on third parties in the operation of our business. our jbi business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. the majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. while we have agreements with a number of class i railroads, the majority of our business travels on the burlington northern santa fe and the norfolk southern railways. a material change in the relationship with or the inability to utilize one or more of these railroads or the overall service levels provided by these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. in addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the united states through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business. 6 we also utilize independent contractors and third-party carriers to complete our services. these third parties are subject to similar regulation requirements, which may have a more significant impact on their operations, causing them to exit the transportation industry. aside from when these third parties may use our trailing equipment to fulfill loads, we do not own the revenue equipment or control the drivers delivering these loads. the inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers and independent contractors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth. rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. fuel costs can be very volatile. we have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. however, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. in addition, we incur additional costs when fuel price increases cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. as of december 31, 2015, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. if the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. we have policies in place for 2016 with substantially the same terms as our 2015 policies for personal injury, property damage, workers' compensation, and cargo loss or damage. we purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. if these expenses increase and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2015, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 29% of our revenue. our jbi, ics, and jbt segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. while our dcs segment business may involve a long-term written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or continue at the same levels. a reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. we operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. the dot and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety, and financial reporting. we are audited periodically by the dot to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. if we were found to be out of compliance, the dot could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. 7 difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers and delivery personnel could affect our profitability and ability to grow. if we are unable to attract and retain the necessary quality and number of employees, we could be required to significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle, dispose of the equipment altogether, or rely more on higher-cost third-party carriers, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. in addition, our growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers upon whom we rely to provide transportation services. we rely significantly on our information technology systems, a disruption, failure or security breach of which could have a material adverse effect on our business . we rely on information technology throughout all areas of our business to initiate, track, and complete customer orders; process financial and nonfinancial data; compile results of operations for internal and external reporting; and achieve operating efficiencies and growth. our information technology systems may be susceptible to various interruptions, including equipment or network failures, failed upgrades or replacement of software, user error, power outages, natural disasters, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, hackers, or other security breaches. we have mitigated our exposure to these risks through the establishment and maintenance of technology security programs and disaster recovery plans, but these mitigating activities may not be sufficient. a significant disruption, failure or security breach in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, which could include operational disruptions, loss of confidential information, external reporting delays or errors, legal claims, or damage to our business reputation. we operate in a competitive and highly fragmented industry. numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. we compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with ltl carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. additionally, some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or to maintain our profit margins. in an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects so-called core carriers as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected. many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. also, certain customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby reducing their need for our services. extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes , and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results. certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our operations. increases in the cost of our operations, such as towing and other maintenance activities, frequently occur during the winter months. natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and increase our costs. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. we operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. we also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. if a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. if we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 23 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk can be quantified by measuring the financial impact of a near-term adverse increase in short-term interest rates on variable-rate debt outstanding. our total long-term debt consists of both fixed and variable interest rate facilities. our senior notes have fixed interest rates ranging from 2.40% to 3.85%. these fixed-rate facilities reduce the impact of changes to market interest rates on future interest expense. our senior revolving line of credit has variable interest rates, which are based on the prime rate, the federal funds rate, or libor, depending upon the specific type of borrowing, plus any applicable margins. we currently have interest rate swap agreements which effectively convert our $250 million of 2.40% fixed-rate senior notes due march 2019 and our $350 million of 3.30% fixed-rate senior notes due august 2022 to variable rates. the applicable interest rates under these swap agreements are based on libor plus an established margin. our earnings would be affected by changes in these short-term variable interest rates. at our current level of borrowing, a one-percentage-point increase in our applicable rate would reduce annual pretax earnings by $7.5 million. although we conduct business in foreign countries, international operations are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. additionally, foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material to our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2015. accordingly, we are not currently subject to material foreign currency exchange rate risks from the effects that exchange rate movements of foreign currencies would have on our future costs or on future cash flows we would receive from our foreign investment. to date, we have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 23 the price and availability of diesel fuel are subject to fluctuations due to changes in the level of global oil production, seasonality, weather, and other market factors. historically, we have been able to recover a majority of fuel-price increases from our customers in the form of fuel surcharges. we cannot predict the extent to which volatile fluctuations in fuel prices will continue in the future or the extent to which fuel surcharges could be collected to offset fuel-price increases. as of december 31, 2015, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations.risk factors 6 we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason. part i item 1. business overview we are one of the largest surface transportation, delivery, and logistics companies in north america. j.b. hunt transport services, inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries, provides safe and reliable transportation and delivery services to a diverse group of customers and consumers throughout the continental united states, canada, and mexico. unless otherwise indicated by the context, we, us, our, the company , and jbht refer to j.b. hunt transport services, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. we were incorporated in arkansas on august 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. our service offerings include transportation of full-truckload containerized freight, which we directly transport utilizing our company-controlled revenue equipment and company drivers or independent contractors. we have arrangements with most of the major north american rail carriers to transport freight in containers or trailers. we also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor, systems, and delivery services that are tailored to meet individual customers' requirements and typically involve long-term contracts. these arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized equipment, and freight network design. our local and home delivery services typically are provided through a network of cross-dock service centers throughout the continental united states. utilizing a network of thousands of reliable third-party carriers, we also provide comprehensive transportation and logistics services. in addition to full-load, dry-van operations, these unrelated outside carriers also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload (ltl), and other specialized equipment, drivers, and services. our customers' business activities are extremely diverse, and our customer base includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. 2 we believe our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. these segments include intermodal (jbi), dedicated contract services (dcs), integrated capacity solutions (ics), and truck (jbt). our business is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during august through early november. our dcs segment is subject to somewhat less seasonal variation than our other segments. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2016, our consolidated revenue totaled $6.56 billion, after the elimination of intersegment business. of this total, 58% was generated by our jbi business segment, 23% by dcs, 13% by ics, and 6% by jbt. for the year ended december 31, 2015, jbi represented 59%, dcs 24%, ics 11%, and jbt 6% of our consolidated revenue. for the year ended december 31, 2014, jbi represented 60%, dcs 22%, ics 12%, and jbt 6% of our consolidated revenue. additional general information about us is available at www.jbhunt.com. we make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website, including our annual report on form 10-k, our proxy statement, and our earnings releases. our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, board committee charters, and other corporate policies. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this annual report on form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. our mission and strategy we forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategies. working in concert, we strive to drive out excess cost, add value and function as an extension of their enterprises. our strategy is based on utilizing an integrated, multimodal approach to provide capacity-oriented solutions centered on delivering customer value and industry-leading service. we believe our unique operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders. we continually analyze where we believe additional capital should be invested and management's resources should be focused to provide added benefits to our customers. these actions should, in turn, yield increasing returns to our stockholders. increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions. our intermodal service addresses both demands. further, we are customizing dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon emissions. efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and we are an environmental protection agency (epa) smartway sm transport partner. as always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as safely as possible. operating segments segment information is also included in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. jbi segment the transportation service offerings of our jbi segment utilize arrangements with most major north american rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental united states, canada, and mexico. our jbi segment began operations in 1989, forming a unique partnership with what is now the bnsf railway company; this was a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint service environment. jbi draws on the intermodal services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment between rail ramps. the origin and destination pickup and delivery services (drayage) are handled by our company-owned tractors for the majority of our intermodal loads, while third-party dray carriers are used where economical. by performing our own drayage services, we are able to provide a cost-competitive, seamless coordination of the combined rail and dray movements for our customers. 3 jbi operates 84,594 pieces of company-owned trailing equipment systemwide. the fleet primarily consists of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. we own and maintain our own chassis fleet, consisting of 73,746 units. the containers and chassis are uniquely designed so that they may only be paired together, which we feel creates an operational competitive advantage. jbi also manages a fleet of 4,581 company-owned tractors, 695 independent contractor trucks, and 5,398 company drivers. at december 31, 2016, the total jbi employee count was 6,088. revenue for the jbi segment in 2016 was $3.80 billion. dcs segment dcs focuses on private fleet conversion and creation in replenishment, specialized equipment, and final-mile delivery services. we specialize in the design, development, and execution of supply-chain solutions that support a variety of transportation networks. our final-mile delivery services are supported with a network of approximately 89 cross-dock locations nationwide, with 98% of the continental u.s. population living within 150 miles of a cross-dock location. contracts with our customers are long-term, ranging from three to 10 years, with the average being approximately five years. pricing of our contracts typically involves cost-plus arrangements, with our fixed costs being recovered regardless of equipment utilization, but is customized based on invested capital and duration. at december 31, 2016, this segment operated 6,976 company-owned trucks, 410 customer-owned trucks, and 15 independent contractor trucks. dcs also operates 16,139 owned pieces of trailing equipment and 6,549 customer-owned trailers. the dcs segment employed 10,291 people, including 8,554 drivers, at december 31, 2016. dcs revenue for 2016 was $1.53 billion. ics segment ics provides traditional freight brokerage and transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and integration with our owned equipment. by leveraging the j.b. hunt brand, systems, and network, we provide a broader service offering to customers by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited, and ltl, as well as a variety of dry-van and intermodal solutions. ics provides single-source logistics management for customers desiring to outsource their transportation functions and utilize our proven supply-chain technology and design expertise to improve efficiency. ics operates 42 remote sales offices or branches, as well as on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with customers. at december 31, 2016, the ics segment employed 824 people, with a carrier base of approximately 50,900. ics revenue for 2016 was $852 million. jbt segment the service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing tractors operating over roads and highways. we typically pick up freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. we use our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport freight in our trailers. at december 31, 2016, the jbt segment operated 1,376 company-owned tractors and employed 1,668 people, 1,433 of whom were drivers. at december 31, 2016, we had 752 independent contractors operating in the jbt segment. jbt revenue for 2016 was $388 million. marketing and operations we transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances, forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and cosmetics, automotive parts, agricultural products, electronics, and chemicals. our customers' business activities are extremely diverse, and our customer base includes a large number of fortune 500 companies. we provide a broad range of transportation services to shippers seeking to use a variety of transportation options to optimize their supply-chain logistics needs. 4 we generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. we use a specific sales force in dcs due to the length, complexity, and specialization of the sales cycle. in addition, ics utilizes its own local branch salespeople. in accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services, and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. people we believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. as of december 31, 2016, we had 22,190 employees, which consisted of 15,385 company drivers, 5,706 office personnel, and 1,099 maintenance technicians. we also had arrangements with approximately 1,462 independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing equipment. none of our employees are represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. revenue equipment our jbi segment utilizes uniquely designed high-cube containers and chassis, which can only be paired with each other and can be separated to allow the containers to be double-stacked on rail cars. the composition of our dcs trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks, and dump trailers. we primarily utilize third-party carriers' tractor and trailing equipment for our ics segment. our jbt segment operates primarily 53-foot dry-van trailers. as of december 31, 2016, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 12,933 units. in addition, we had 1,462 independent contractors who operate their own tractors but transport freight in our trailing equipment. we operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our jbi and jbt fleets. due to our customers' preferences and the actual business application, our dcs fleet is extremely diversified. we believe operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers, and lowers maintenance expense. at december 31, 2016, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 1.9 years, while our containers averaged 5.9 years of age and our trailers averaged 7.6 years. we perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at our regional terminal facilities. competition and the industry the freight transportation markets in which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and competitive. our jbi segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies; other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation service; and, to a certain extent, some railroads directly. the diversified nature of the services provided by our dcs segment attracts competition from customers' private fleets, other private fleet outsourcing companies, equipment leasing companies, local and regional delivery service providers, and some truckload carriers. our ics segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers. the full-load freight competition of our jbt segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. while we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country. we compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery service, availability and type of equipment capacity, and availability of carriers for logistics services. regulation our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) and the federal motor carrier safety administration (fmcsa), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. the dot periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the dot. our operations into and out of canada and mexico are subject to regulation by those countries. 5 in 2013, the remaining provisions of the fmcsa's amendment to the hours-of-service (hos) safety requirements for commercial truck drivers became effective, and we experienced some negative impact on our productivity as a result. however, in december 2014, as a result of the consolidated and further continuing appropriations act of 2015, the fmcsa was required to rescind the 34-hour restart provision of the amended hos rules to the pre-july 1, 2013 requirements. furthermore, the fmcsa was required to conduct a field study measuring the safety benefit of the amended hos rules before and after this rule change. this rule rescission is considered temporary pending the outcome of the study, which remains uncompleted. we continue to evaluate and adjust the various segments of our operations toward the ultimate impact of these changes in hos safety requirements. in december 2015, the fmcsa published a final rule requiring use of an electronic logging device (eld) by december 2017, for nearly all carriers. we have successfully implemented eld's within our fleets. in 2013, the fmcsa, in conjunction with the national highway traffic safety administration, submitted a notice of proposed rulemaking, which was finalized and published in 2016, requiring the installation of speed-limiting devices on heavy trucks. this final rule will have minimal implementation cost for us, as all of our heavy trucks subject to this rule already have these devices installed. we do not anticipate a negative impact on our operations or productivity. in 2016, the fmcsa published a notice of proposed rulemaking to adopt revised methodologies towards a safety fitness determination (sfd) for motor carriers. the proposed methodologies would determine when a motor carrier is not fit to operate commercial motor vehicles based on the carrier's on-road safety performance in relation to five of the agency's seven behavioral analysis and safety improvement categories (basic), a formal investigation, or a combination of the two. the intent of this action is to more effectively use fmcsa data and resources to identify unfit motor carriers and remove them from interstate commerce. we do not anticipate a negative impact on our operations or productivity. we continue to monitor the actions of the fmcsa and other regulatory agencies, and evaluate all proposed rules to determine their impact on our operations. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this form 10-k and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. in addition to general u.s. economic trends, and to a lesser extent global economic trends, these factors include interference with or termination of our relationships with certain railroads; rail service delays; disruptions to u.s. port-of-call activity; significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel taxes, interest rates, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, excess capacity in the intermodal or trucking industries, or license and registration fees; terrorist attacks or actions; acts of war; adverse weather conditions; disruption or failure of information technology systems; increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment; increased tariffs assessed on or disruptions in the procurement of imported revenue equipment; volatile financial credit markets; and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, independent contractors, and third-party carriers. we are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers' business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries where we have a significant concentration of customers. economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. in addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. 6 we depend on third parties in the operation of our business. our jbi business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. the majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. while we have agreements with a number of class i railroads, the majority of our business travels on the bnsf railway company (bnsf) and the norfolk southern railways. a material change in the relationship with, the ability to utilize one or more of these railroads or the overall service levels provided by these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. in addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the united states through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business. in january, 2017, we exercised our right to utilize the arbitration process to review the division of revenue collected beginning may 1, 2016, as well as to clarify other issues, under our joint service agreement with bnsf. bnsf has requested the same, and the arbitration process has commenced. bnsf provides a significant amount of rail transportation services to our jbi business segment. at this time, we are unable to reasonably predict the outcome of the arbitration, and, as such, no gain or loss contingency can be determined or recorded. normal commercial business activity between the parties, including load tendering, load tracing, billing and payments, is expected to continue on a timely basis. we also utilize independent contractors and third-party carriers to complete our services. these third parties are subject to similar regulation requirements, which may have a more significant impact on their operations, causing them to exit the transportation industry. aside from when these third parties may use our trailing equipment to fulfill loads, we do not own the revenue equipment or control the drivers delivering these loads. the inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers and independent contractors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth. rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. fuel costs can be very volatile. we have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. however, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. in addition, we incur additional costs when fuel price increases cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. as of december 31, 2016, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. if the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. we have policies in place for 2017 with substantially the same terms as our 2016 policies for personal injury, property damage, workers' compensation, and cargo loss or damage. we purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. if these expenses increase and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. 7 we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2016, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 29% of our revenue. our jbi, ics, and jbt segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. while our dcs segment business may involve a long-term written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or continue at the same levels. a reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. we operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. the dot, fmcsa, and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety, and financial reporting. we are audited periodically by the dot to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. if we were found to be out of compliance, the dot could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers and delivery personnel could affect our profitability and ability to grow. if we are unable to attract and retain the necessary quality and number of employees, we could be required to significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle, dispose of the equipment altogether, or rely more on higher-cost third-party carriers, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. in addition, our growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers upon whom we rely to provide transportation services. we rely significantly on our information technology systems, a disruption, failure or security breach of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we rely on information technology throughout all areas of our business to initiate, track, and complete customer orders; process financial and nonfinancial data; compile results of operations for internal and external reporting; and achieve operating efficiencies and growth. our information technology systems may be susceptible to various interruptions, including equipment or network failures, failed upgrades or replacement of software, user error, power outages, natural disasters, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, hackers, or other security breaches. we have mitigated our exposure to these risks through the establishment and maintenance of technology security programs and disaster recovery plans, but these mitigating activities may not be sufficient. a significant disruption, failure or security breach in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, which could include operational disruptions, loss of confidential information, external reporting delays or errors, legal claims, or damage to our business reputation. we operate in a competitive and highly fragmented industry. numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. we compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with ltl carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. additionally, some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or to maintain our profit margins. in an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects so-called core carriers as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected. many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. also, certain customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby reducing their need for our services. 8 extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes, and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results. certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our operations. increases in the cost of our operations, such as towing and other maintenance activities, frequently occur during the winter months. natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and increase our costs. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. we operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. we also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. if a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. if we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk can be quantified by measuring the financial impact of a near-term adverse increase in short-term interest rates on variable-rate debt outstanding. our total long-term debt consists of both fixed and variable interest rate facilities. our senior notes have fixed interest rates ranging from 2.40% to 3.85%. these fixed-rate facilities reduce the impact of changes to market interest rates on future interest expense. our senior revolving line of credit has variable interest rates, which are based on the prime rate, the federal funds rate, or libor, depending upon the specific type of borrowing, plus any applicable margins. we currently have interest rate swap agreements which effectively convert our $250 million of 2.40% fixed-rate senior notes due march 2019 and our $350 million of 3.30% fixed-rate senior notes due august 2022 to variable rates. the applicable interest rates under these swap agreements are based on libor plus an established margin. our earnings would be affected by changes in these short-term variable interest rates. at our current level of borrowing, a one-percentage-point increase in our applicable rate would reduce annual pretax earnings by $7.4 million. although we conduct business in foreign countries, international operations are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. additionally, foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material to our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2016. accordingly, we are not currently subject to material foreign currency exchange rate risks from the effects that exchange rate movements of foreign currencies would have on our future costs or on future cash flows we would receive from our foreign investment. to date, we have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 24 the price and availability of diesel fuel are subject to fluctuations due to changes in the level of global oil production, seasonality, weather, and other market factors. historically, we have been able to recover a majority of fuel-price increases from our customers in the form of fuel surcharges. we cannot predict the extent to which volatile fluctuations in fuel prices will continue in the future or the extent to which fuel surcharges could be collected to offset fuel-price increases. as of december 31, 2016, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations.risk factors 6risk factors 6 risk factors in addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this form 10-k and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. in addition to general u.s. economic trends, and to a lesser extent global economic trends, these factors include interference with or termination of our relationships with certain railroads; rail service delays; disruptions to u.s. port-of-call activity; significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel taxes, interest rates, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, excess capacity in the intermodal or trucking industries, or license and registration fees; terrorist attacks or actions; acts of war; adverse weather conditions; disruption or failure of information technology systems; increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment; increased tariffs assessed on or disruptions in the procurement of imported revenue equipment; volatile financial credit markets; operational disruption or adverse effects of business acquisitions; and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, independent contractors, and third-party carriers. we are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers&rsquo; business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries where we have a significant concentration of customers. economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. in addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. we depend on third parties in the operation of our business. our jbi business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. the majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. while we have agreements with a number of class i railroads, the majority of our business travels on the bnsf and the norfolk southern railways. a material change in the relationship with, the ability to utilize one or more of these railroads or the overall service levels provided by these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. in addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the united states through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business. in january 2017, we exercised our right to utilize the arbitration process to review the division of revenue collected beginning may 1, 2016, as well as to clarify other issues, under our joint service agreement with bnsf. bnsf requested the same, and the arbitration process is on-going. on october 5, 2018, we received the arbitrators&rsquo; interim award. the details of the interim award are confidential and require the parties to submit additional information requested by the arbitrators to decide certain unresolved matters. for the determined components of the interim award, we recorded an $18.3 million pre-tax charge in the third quarter 2018, related to certain charges claimed by bnsf for specific services requested for customers from april 2014 through may 2018. on december 7, 2018 the arbitrators&rsquo; issued their clarified interim award of october 5, 2018 resulting from some of the parties&rsquo; additional submissions to the panel regarding certain issues related to determining the revenue division between the parties. on january 11, 2019, the panel issued its second interim award ordering that $89.4 million is due from the company to bnsf resulting from the adjusted revenue divisions relating to the 2016 period at issue ($52.1 million) and for calendar year 2017 ($37.3 million). the parties have been instructed to make further submissions on the revenue divisions for calendar year 2018 and going forward, as well as other confidential issues raised during the arbitration process so that the panel can issue an appropriate interim and/or final award regarding all issues raised during the proceeding. we recorded pretax charges for contingent liabilities in the fourth quarter 2018 of $89.4 million claimed by the bnsf for the period may 1, 2016 through december 31, 2017 and $44.6 million for the period january 1, 2018 through december 31, 2018, for a total of $134 million. the other financial implications from the interim award and the clarified interim award will not be fully determined until the arbitrators issue additional award(s) following their review of each party&rsquo;s requested additional submissions. at this time, we are unable to reasonably predict the final outcome of the arbitration, and, as such, no further gain or loss contingency can be determined or recorded. if decided adversely, this matter could result in a liability material to our financial condition or results of operations. bnsf provides a significant amount of rail transportation services to our jbi business segment. normal commercial business activity between the parties, including load tendering, load tracing, billing and payments, is expected to continue on a timely basis. 6 we also utilize independent contractors and third-party carriers to complete our services. these third parties are subject to similar regulation requirements, which may have a more significant impact on their operations, causing them to exit the transportation industry. aside from when these third parties may use our trailing equipment to fulfill loads, we do not own the revenue equipment or control the drivers delivering these loads. the inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers and independent contractors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth. rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. fuel costs can be very volatile. we have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. however, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. in addition, we incur additional costs when fuel price increases cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. as of december 31, 2018, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. i nsurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. if the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. we have policies in place for 2019 with substantially the same terms as our 2018 policies for personal injury, property damage, workers&rsquo; compensation, and cargo loss or damage, with the exception of decreasing our self-insured portion of workers&rsquo; compensation claims to zero for nearly all states. we purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. if these expenses increase and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2018, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 30% of our revenue. our jbi, ics, and jbt segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. while our dcs segment business may involve long-term written contracts, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or continue at the same levels. a reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. we operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. the dot, fmcsa, and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety, and financial reporting. we are audited periodically by the dot to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. if we were found to be out of compliance, the dot could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. our failure to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations to which we are subject, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments. further, these agencies could institute new laws, rules or regulations or issue interpretation changes to existing regulations at any time. compliance with new laws, rules or regulations could substantially impair labor and equipment productivity, increase our costs or impact our ability to offer certain services. 7 difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers and delivery personnel could affect our profitability and ability to grow. if we are unable to attract and retain the necessary quality and number of employees, we could be required to significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle, dispose of the equipment altogether, or rely more on higher-cost third-party carriers, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. in addition, our growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers upon whom we rely to provide transportation services. a determination that independent contractors are employees could expose us to various liabilities and additional costs. tax and other regulatory authorities often seek to assert that independent contractors in the transportation service industry are employees rather than independent contractors. there can be no assurance that interpretations that support the independent contractor status will not change or that various authorities will not successfully assert a position that re-classifies independent contractors to be employees. if our independent contractors are determined to be our employees, that determination could materially increase our exposure under a variety of federal and state tax, workers&rsquo; compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment and tort laws, as well as our potential liability for employee benefits. in addition, such changes may be applied retroactively, and if so, we may be required to pay additional amounts to compensate for prior periods. any of the above increased costs would adversely affect our business and operating results. we may be subject to litigation claims that could result in significant expenditures . we by the nature of our operations are exposed to the potential for a variety of litigation, including personal injury claims, vehicular collisions and accidents, alleged violations of federal and state labor and employment laws, such as class-action lawsuits alleging wage and hour violations and improper pay, commercial and contract disputes, cargo loss and property damage claims. while we purchase insurance coverage at levels we deem adequate, future litigation may exceed our insurance coverage or may not be covered by insurance. we accrue a provision for a litigation matter according to applicable accounting standards based on the ongoing assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the litigation, its likelihood of success, and an evaluation of the possible range of loss. our inability to defend ourselves against a significant litigation claim, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we rely significantly on our information technology systems , a disruption, failure or security breach of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we rely on information technology throughout all areas of our business to initiate, track, and complete customer orders; process financial and nonfinancial data; compile results of operations for internal and external reporting; and achieve operating efficiencies and growth. our information technology systems may be susceptible to various interruptions, including equipment or network failures, failed upgrades or replacement of software, user error, power outages, natural disasters, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, hackers, or other security breaches. we have mitigated our exposure to these risks through the establishment and maintenance of technology security programs and disaster recovery plans, but these mitigating activities may not be sufficient. a significant disruption, failure or security breach in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, which could include operational disruptions, loss of confidential information, external reporting delays or errors, legal claims, or damage to our business reputation. 8 we operate in a competitive and highly fragmented industry. numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. we compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with ltl carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. additionally, some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or to maintain our profit margins. in an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects so-called &ldquo;core carriers&rdquo; as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected. many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. also, certain customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby reducing their need for our services. extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes , and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results. certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our operations. increases in the cost of our operations, such as towing and other maintenance activities, frequently occur during the winter months. natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and increase our costs. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. we operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. we also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. if a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. if we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. acquisitions or business combinations may disrupt or have a material adverse effect on our operations or earnings. we could have difficulty integrating acquired companies&rsquo; assets, personnel and operations with our own. regardless of whether we are successful in making an acquisition or completing a business combination, the negotiations could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, and increase our operating costs. acquisitions and business combinations are accompanied by a number of inherent risks, including, without limitation, the difficulty of integrating acquired companies and operations; potential disruption of our ongoing businesses and distraction of our management or the management of acquired companies; difficulties in maintaining controls, procedures and policies; potential impairment of relationships with employees and partners as a result of any integration of new management personnel; potential inability to manage an increased number of locations and employees; failure to realize expected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; or the effect of any government regulations which relate to the businesses acquired. our business could be materially impacted if and to the extent that we are unable to succeed in addressing any of these risks or other problems encountered in connection with an acquisition or business combination, many of which cannot be presently identified. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk can be quantified by measuring the financial impact of a near-term adverse increase in short-term interest rates on variable-rate debt outstanding. our total long-term debt consists of both fixed and variable interest rate facilities. our senior notes have fixed interest rates ranging from 2.40% to 3.85%. these fixed-rate facilities reduce the impact of changes to market interest rates on future interest expense. our senior revolving line of credit has variable interest rates, which are based on the prime rate, the federal funds rate, or libor, depending upon the specific type of borrowing, plus any applicable margins. we currently have interest rate swap agreements which effectively convert our $250 million of 2.40% fixed-rate senior notes due march 2019 and our $350 million of 3.30% fixed-rate senior notes due august 2022 to variable rates. the applicable interest rates under these swap agreements are based on libor plus an established margin. our earnings would be affected by changes in these short-term variable interest rates. at our current level of borrowing, a one-percentage-point increase in our applicable rate would reduce annual pretax earnings by $9.1 million. 25 although we conduct business in foreign countries, international operations are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. additionally, foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material to our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2018. accordingly, we are not currently subject to material foreign currency exchange rate risks from the effects that exchange rate movements of foreign currencies would have on our future costs or on future cash flows we would receive from our foreign investment. to date, we have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the price and availability of diesel fuel are subject to fluctuations due to changes in the level of global oil production, seasonality, weather, and other market factors. historically, we have been able to recover a majority of fuel-price increases from our customers in the form of fuel surcharges. we cannot predict the extent to which volatile fluctuations in fuel prices will continue in the future or the extent to which fuel surcharges could be collected to offset fuel-price increases. as of december 31, 2018, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations.risk factors 6 risk factors in addition to the factors outlined previously in this form 10-k regarding forward-looking statements and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. o ur business is significantly impacted by economic conditions, customer business cycles and seasonal factors . our business is dependent on the freight shipping needs of our customers, which can be heavily impacted by economic conditions and other factors affecting their businesses. recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries where we have a significant concentration of customers, may substantially reduce freight volumes for which our customers need transportation services and lead to excess capacity in the industry and resulting pressure on the rates we are able to obtain for our services. adverse economic conditions may also require us to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. in addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. any of these factors could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we depend on third parties in the operation of our business. our jbi business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. the majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. while we have agreements with a number of class i railroads, the majority of our business travels on the bnsf and the norfolk southern railways. a material change in the relationship with, the ability to utilize one or more of these railroads or the overall service levels provided by these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. in addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the united states through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business. we also utilize independent contractors and third-party carriers to complete our services. these third parties are subject to similar regulation requirements, which may have a more significant impact on their operations, causing them to exit the transportation industry. aside from when these third parties may use our trailing equipment to fulfill loads, we do not own the revenue equipment or control the drivers delivering these loads. the inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers and independent contractors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth. rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. fuel costs can be very volatile. we have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. however, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. in addition, we incur additional costs when fuel price increases cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. as of december 31, 2019, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. 6 i nsurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. if the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. we have policies in place for 2020 with substantially the same terms as our 2019 policies for personal injury, property damage, workers compensation, and cargo loss or damage. we purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. if these expenses increase and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. for the calendar year ended december 31, 2019, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 32% of our revenue. our jbi, ics, and jbt segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. while our dcs segment business may involve long-term written contracts, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or continue at the same levels. a reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. we operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. the dot, fmcsa, and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety, and financial reporting. we are audited periodically by the dot to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. if we were found to be out of compliance, the dot could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. our failure to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations to which we are subject, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments. further, these agencies could institute new laws, rules or regulations or issue interpretation changes to existing regulations at any time. compliance with new laws, rules or regulations could substantially impair labor and equipment productivity, increase our costs or impact our ability to offer certain services. difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers and delivery personnel could affect our profitability and ability to grow. if we are unable to attract and retain the necessary quality and number of employees, we could be required to significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle, dispose of the equipment altogether, or rely more on higher-cost third-party carriers, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. in addition, our growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers upon whom we rely to provide transportation services. 7 a determination that independent contractors are employees could expose us to various liabilities and additional costs. federal and state legislation as well as tax and other regulatory authorities have sought to assert that independent contractors in the transportation service industry are employees rather than independent contractors. an example of such legislation recently enacted in california is currently under a judicial stay with respect to trucking companies while a legal challenge to the law is pending. there can be no assurance that interpretations that support the independent contractor status will not change, that other federal or state legislation will not be enacted or that various authorities will not successfully assert a position that re-classifies independent contractors to be employees. if our independent contractors are determined to be our employees, that determination could materially increase our exposure under a variety of federal and state tax, workers compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment and tort laws, as well as our potential liability for employee benefits. in addition, such changes may be applied retroactively, and if so, we may be required to pay additional amounts to compensate for prior periods. any of the above increased costs would adversely affect our business and operating results. we may be subject to litigation claims that could result in significant expenditures . we by the nature of our operations are exposed to the potential for a variety of litigation, including personal injury claims, vehicular collisions and accidents, alleged violations of federal and state labor and employment laws, such as class-action lawsuits alleging wage and hour violations and improper pay, commercial and contract disputes, cargo loss and property damage claims. while we purchase insurance coverage at levels we deem adequate, future litigation may exceed our insurance coverage or may not be covered by insurance. we accrue a provision for a litigation matter according to applicable accounting standards based on the ongoing assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the litigation, its likelihood of success, and an evaluation of the possible range of loss. our inability to defend ourselves against a significant litigation claim, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we rely significantly on our information technology systems , a disruption, failure or security breach of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we rely on information technology throughout all areas of our business to initiate, track, and complete customer orders; process financial and nonfinancial data; compile results of operations for internal and external reporting; and achieve operating efficiencies and growth. we have also invested significantly in the development of our marketplace for j.b. hunt 360 online freight matching platform, through which we are generating an increasing amount of revenue. each of our information technology systems may be susceptible to various interruptions, including equipment or network failures, failed upgrades or replacement of software, user error, power outages, natural disasters, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, hackers, or other security breaches. we have mitigated our exposure to these risks through the establishment and maintenance of technology security programs and disaster recovery plans, but these mitigating activities may not be sufficient. a significant disruption, failure or security breach in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, which could include operational disruptions, loss of confidential information, external reporting delays or errors, legal claims, or damage to our business reputation. we operate in a competitive and highly fragmented industry. numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. we compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with ltl carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. additionally, some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or to maintain our profit margins. in an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects so-called core carriers as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected. many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. also, certain customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby reducing their need for our services. 8 extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes , and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results. certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our operations. increases in the cost of our operations, such as towing and other maintenance activities, frequently occur during the winter months. natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and increase our costs. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including legislative and regulatory responses to climate change. compliance with environmental requirements could result in significant expenditures and the violation of these regulations could result in substantial fines or penalties. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. we operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. we also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. if a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. if we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. we are also subject to existing and potential future laws and regulations with regards to public policy on climate change. if current regulatory requirements become more stringent or new environmental laws and regulations regarding climate change are introduced, we could be required to make significant expenditures or abandon certain activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. acquisitions or business combinations may disrupt or have a material adverse effect on our operations or earnings. we could have difficulty integrating acquired companies assets, personnel and operations with our own. regardless of whether we are successful in making an acquisition or completing a business combination, the negotiations could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, and increase our operating costs. acquisitions and business combinations are accompanied by a number of inherent risks, including, without limitation, the difficulty of integrating acquired companies and operations; potential disruption of our ongoing businesses and distraction of our management or the management of acquired companies; difficulties in maintaining controls, procedures and policies; potential impairment of relationships with employees and partners as a result of any integration of new management personnel; potential inability to manage an increased number of locations and employees; failure to realize expected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; or the effect of any government regulations which relate to the businesses acquired. our business could be materially impacted if and to the extent that we are unable to succeed in addressing any of these risks or other problems encountered in connection with an acquisition or business combination, many of which cannot be presently identified. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk can be quantified by measuring the financial impact of a near-term adverse increase in short-term interest rates on variable-rate debt outstanding. our total long-term debt consists of both fixed and variable interest rate facilities. our senior notes have fixed interest rates ranging from 3.30% to 3.875%. these fixed-rate facilities reduce the impact of changes to market interest rates on future interest expense. our senior revolving line of credit has variable interest rates, which are based on the prime rate, the federal funds rate, or libor, depending upon the specific type of borrowing, plus any applicable margins. we currently have an interest rate swap agreement which effectively converts our $350 million of 3.30% fixed-rate senior notes due august 2022 to a variable rate. the applicable interest rate under this swap agreement is based on libor plus an established margin. our earnings would be affected by changes in these short-term variable interest rates. at our current level of borrowing, a one-percentage-point increase in our applicable rate would reduce annual pretax earnings by $3.5 million. 24 although we conduct business in foreign countries, international operations are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. additionally, foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material to our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2019. accordingly, we are not currently subject to material foreign currency exchange rate risks from the effects that exchange rate movements of foreign currencies would have on our future costs or on future cash flows we would receive from our foreign investment. to date, we have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the price and availability of diesel fuel are subject to fluctuations due to changes in the level of global oil production, seasonality, weather, and other market factors. historically, we have been able to recover a majority of fuel-price increases from our customers in the form of fuel surcharges. we cannot predict the extent to which volatile fluctuations in fuel prices will continue in the future or the extent to which fuel surcharges could be collected to offset fuel-price increases. as of december 31, 2019, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations.